docs/root/start/quick-start/run-envoy.rst, before:

.. _start_quick_start_run_envoy:


Run Envoy
=========

The following instructions walk through starting Envoy as a system daemon or using
the Envoy Docker image.

.. _start_quick_start_version:

Check your Envoy version
------------------------

Once you have :ref:`installed Envoy <install>`, you can check the version information as follows:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy --version
         ...

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   --version
         ...

.. _start_quick_start_help:

View the Envoy command line options
-----------------------------------

You can view the Envoy :ref:`command line options <operations_cli>` with the ``--help``
flag:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy --help
         ...

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   --help
         ...

.. _start_quick_start_config:

Run Envoy with the demo configuration
-------------------------------------

The ``-c`` or ``--config-path`` flag tells Envoy the path to its initial configuration.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      To start Envoy as a system daemon :download:`download the demo configuration <_include/envoy-demo.yaml>`, and start
      as follows:

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy -c envoy-demo.yaml
         ...

   .. tab:: Docker

      You can start the Envoy Docker image without specifying a configuration file, and
      it will use the demo config by default.

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm -it \
               -p 9901:9901 \
               -p 10000:10000 \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image|
         ...

      To specify a custom configuration you can mount the config into the container, and specify the path with ``-c``.

      Assuming you have a custom configuration in the current directory named ``envoy-custom.yaml``:

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm -it \
               -v $(pwd)/envoy-custom.yaml:/envoy-custom.yaml \
               -p 9901:9901 \
               -p 10000:10000 \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   -c /envoy-custom.yaml
         ...

   .. tab:: Windows Service

      You can start Envoy as Windows Service that is managed under `Windows Service Control Manager <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/services/using-services/>`_. 

      First, you need to create the service. Assuming you have a custom configuration in the current directory named ``envoy-custom.yaml``. After you create the service you
      can start it.
      
      From an **administrator** prompt run the following commands:

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         > sc create EnvoyProxy binpath="envoy-static.exe --config-path envoy-demo.yaml"
            [SC] CreateService SUCCESS
         > sc start EnvoyProxy
            SERVICE_NAME: envoyproxy
               TYPE               : 10  WIN32_OWN_PROCESS
               STATE              : 2  START_PENDING
                                       (NOT_STOPPABLE, NOT_PAUSABLE, IGNORES_SHUTDOWN)
               WIN32_EXIT_CODE    : 0  (0x0)
               SERVICE_EXIT_CODE  : 0  (0x0)
               CHECKPOINT         : 0x0
               WAIT_HINT          : 0x7d0
               PID                : 3924
               FLAGS              :
         > sc query EnvoyProxy
            SERVICE_NAME: envoyproxy
               TYPE               : 10  WIN32_OWN_PROCESS
               STATE              : 4  RUNNING
                                       (STOPPABLE, PAUSABLE, ACCEPTS_SHUTDOWN)
               WIN32_EXIT_CODE    : 0  (0x0)
               SERVICE_EXIT_CODE  : 0  (0x0)
               CHECKPOINT         : 0x0
               WAIT_HINT          : 0x0
         ...

      Use `sc.exe <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/sc-create/>`_ to configure the service startup and error handling.
      
      .. tip::
         The output of``sc query envoyproxy`` contains the exit code of Envoy Proxy. In case the arguments are invalid we set it to ``E_INVALIDARG``.

Check Envoy is proxying on http://localhost:10000.

.. code-block:: console

   $ curl -v localhost:10000
   ...

The Envoy admin endpoint should also be available at http://localhost:9901.

.. code-block:: console

   $ curl -v localhost:9901
   ...

You can exit the server with `Ctrl-c`.

See the :ref:`admin quick start guide <start_quick_start_admin>` for more information about the Envoy admin interface.

.. _start_quick_start_override:

Override the default configuration
----------------------------------

You can provide an override configuration using :option:`--config-yaml` which will merge with the main
configuration.

This option can only be specified once.

Save the following snippet to ``envoy-override.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

   admin:
     address:
       socket_address:
         port_value: 9902

Next, start the Envoy server using the override configuration:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy -c envoy-demo.yaml --config-yaml "$(cat envoy-override.yaml)"
         ...

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm -it \
               -p 9902:9902 \
               -p 10000:10000 \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   -c /etc/envoy/envoy.yaml \
                   --config-yaml "$(cat envoy-override.yaml)"
         ...

The Envoy admin interface should now be available on http://localhost:9902.

.. code-block:: console

   $ curl -v localhost:9902
   ...

.. note::

   When merging ``yaml`` lists (e.g. :ref:`listeners <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/config/listener/v3/listener.proto>`
   or :ref:`clusters <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/service/cluster/v3/cds.proto>`) the merged configurations
   are appended.

   You cannot therefore use an override file to change the configurations of previously specified
   :ref:`listeners <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/config/listener/v3/listener.proto>` or
   :ref:`clusters <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/service/cluster/v3/cds.proto>`

Validating your Envoy configuration
-----------------------------------

You can start Envoy in :option:`validate mode <--mode>`.

This allows you to check that Envoy is able to start with your configuration, without actually starting
or restarting the service, or making any network connections.

If the configuration is valid the process will print ``OK`` and exit with a return code of ``0``.

For invalid configuration the process will print the errors and exit with ``1``.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy --mode validate -c my-envoy-config.yaml
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][main] [source/server/server.cc:583] runtime: layers:
         - name: base
           static_layer:
             {}
         - name: admin
           admin_layer:
             {}
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:95] loading tracing configuration
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:70] loading 0 static secret(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:76] loading 1 cluster(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.546][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:80] loading 1 listener(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.549][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:121] loading stats sink configuration
         configuration 'my-envoy-config.yaml' OK

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm \
               -v $(pwd)/my-envoy-config.yaml:/my-envoy-config.yaml \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   --mode validate \
                   -c my-envoy-config.yaml
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][main] [source/server/server.cc:583] runtime: layers:
         - name: base
           static_layer:
             {}
         - name: admin
           admin_layer:
             {}
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:95] loading tracing configuration
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:70] loading 0 static secret(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:76] loading 1 cluster(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.546][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:80] loading 1 listener(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.549][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:121] loading stats sink configuration
         configuration 'my-envoy-config.yaml' OK

Envoy logging
-------------

By default Envoy system logs are sent to ``/dev/stderr``.

This can be overridden using :option:`--log-path`.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ mkdir logs
         $ envoy -c envoy-demo.yaml --log-path logs/custom.log

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ mkdir logs
         $ chmod go+rwx logs/
         $ docker run --rm -it \
               -p 10000:10000 \
               -v $(pwd)/logs:/logs \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   -c /etc/envoy/envoy.yaml \
                   --log-path logs/custom.log

:ref:`Access log <arch_overview_access_logs>` paths can be set for the
:ref:`admin interface <start_quick_start_admin>`, and for configured
:ref:`listeners <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/config/listener/v3/listener.proto>`.

The :download:`demo configuration <_include/envoy-demo.yaml>` is configured with a
:ref:`listener <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/config/listener/v3/listener.proto>` that logs access
to ``/dev/stdout``:

.. literalinclude:: _include/envoy-demo.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 12
   :lines: 12-22
   :emphasize-lines: 4-8

The default configuration in the Envoy Docker container also logs access in this way.

Logging to ``/dev/stderr`` and ``/dev/stdout`` for system and access logs respectively can
be useful when running Envoy inside a container as the streams can be separated, and logging requires no
additional files or directories to be mounted.

Some Envoy :ref:`filters and extensions <api-v3_config>` may also have additional logging capabilities.

Envoy can be configured to log to :ref:`different formats <config_access_log>`, and to
:ref:`different outputs <api-v3_config_accesslog>` in addition to files and ``stdout/err``.

.. note::

   If you are running Envoy on a Windows system Envoy will output to ``CON`` by default.

   This can also be used as a logging path when configuring logging.

Debugging Envoy
---------------

The log level for Envoy system logs can be set using the :option:`-l or --log-level <--log-level>` option.

The available log levels are:

- ``trace``
- ``debug``
- ``info``
- ``warning/warn``
- ``error``
- ``critical``
- ``off``

The default  is ``info``.

You can also set the log level for specific components using the :option:`--component-log-level` option.

The following example inhibits all logging except for the ``upstream`` and ``connection`` components,
which are set to ``debug`` and ``trace`` respectively.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy -c envoy-demo.yaml -l off --component-log-level upstream:debug,connection:trace
         ...

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm -d \
               -p 9901:9901 \
               -p 10000:10000 \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   -c /etc/envoy/envoy.yaml \
                   -l off \
                   --component-log-level upstream:debug,connection:trace
         ...

.. tip::

   See ``ALL_LOGGER_IDS`` in :repo:`logger.h </source/common/common/logger.h#L29>` for a list of components.

Commit message:

clarify executable path in documentation
Signed-off-by: Sotiris Nanopoulos <sonanopo@microsoft.com>

docs/root/start/quick-start/run-envoy.rst, after:

.. _start_quick_start_run_envoy:


Run Envoy
=========

The following instructions walk through starting Envoy as a system daemon or using
the Envoy Docker image.

.. _start_quick_start_version:

Check your Envoy version
------------------------

Once you have :ref:`installed Envoy <install>`, you can check the version information as follows:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy --version
         ...

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   --version
         ...

.. _start_quick_start_help:

View the Envoy command line options
-----------------------------------

You can view the Envoy :ref:`command line options <operations_cli>` with the ``--help``
flag:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy --help
         ...

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   --help
         ...

.. _start_quick_start_config:

Run Envoy with the demo configuration
-------------------------------------

The ``-c`` or ``--config-path`` flag tells Envoy the path to its initial configuration.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      To start Envoy as a system daemon :download:`download the demo configuration <_include/envoy-demo.yaml>`, and start
      as follows:

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy -c envoy-demo.yaml
         ...

   .. tab:: Docker

      You can start the Envoy Docker image without specifying a configuration file, and
      it will use the demo config by default.

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm -it \
               -p 9901:9901 \
               -p 10000:10000 \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image|
         ...

      To specify a custom configuration you can mount the config into the container, and specify the path with ``-c``.

      Assuming you have a custom configuration in the current directory named ``envoy-custom.yaml``:

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm -it \
               -v $(pwd)/envoy-custom.yaml:/envoy-custom.yaml \
               -p 9901:9901 \
               -p 10000:10000 \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   -c /envoy-custom.yaml
         ...

   .. tab:: Windows Service

      You can start Envoy as Windows Service that is managed under `Windows Service Control Manager <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/services/using-services/>`_. 

      First, you need to create the service. Assuming you have a custom configuration in the current directory named ``envoy-custom.yaml``. After you create the service you
      can start it.
      
      From an **administrator** prompt run the following commands (note that you need envoy-static.exe to be on the PATH or modify the commands bellow with the full path):

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         > sc create EnvoyProxy binpath="envoy-static.exe --config-path envoy-demo.yaml"
            [SC] CreateService SUCCESS
         > sc start EnvoyProxy
            SERVICE_NAME: envoyproxy
               TYPE               : 10  WIN32_OWN_PROCESS
               STATE              : 2  START_PENDING
                                       (NOT_STOPPABLE, NOT_PAUSABLE, IGNORES_SHUTDOWN)
               WIN32_EXIT_CODE    : 0  (0x0)
               SERVICE_EXIT_CODE  : 0  (0x0)
               CHECKPOINT         : 0x0
               WAIT_HINT          : 0x7d0
               PID                : 3924
               FLAGS              :
         > sc query EnvoyProxy
            SERVICE_NAME: envoyproxy
               TYPE               : 10  WIN32_OWN_PROCESS
               STATE              : 4  RUNNING
                                       (STOPPABLE, PAUSABLE, ACCEPTS_SHUTDOWN)
               WIN32_EXIT_CODE    : 0  (0x0)
               SERVICE_EXIT_CODE  : 0  (0x0)
               CHECKPOINT         : 0x0
               WAIT_HINT          : 0x0
         ...

      Use `sc.exe <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/sc-create/>`_ to configure the service startup and error handling.
      
      .. tip::
         The output of``sc query envoyproxy`` contains the exit code of Envoy Proxy. In case the arguments are invalid we set it to ``E_INVALIDARG``.

Check Envoy is proxying on http://localhost:10000.

.. code-block:: console

   $ curl -v localhost:10000
   ...

The Envoy admin endpoint should also be available at http://localhost:9901.

.. code-block:: console

   $ curl -v localhost:9901
   ...

You can exit the server with `Ctrl-c`.

See the :ref:`admin quick start guide <start_quick_start_admin>` for more information about the Envoy admin interface.

.. _start_quick_start_override:

Override the default configuration
----------------------------------

You can provide an override configuration using :option:`--config-yaml` which will merge with the main
configuration.

This option can only be specified once.

Save the following snippet to ``envoy-override.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

   admin:
     address:
       socket_address:
         port_value: 9902

Next, start the Envoy server using the override configuration:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy -c envoy-demo.yaml --config-yaml "$(cat envoy-override.yaml)"
         ...

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm -it \
               -p 9902:9902 \
               -p 10000:10000 \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   -c /etc/envoy/envoy.yaml \
                   --config-yaml "$(cat envoy-override.yaml)"
         ...

The Envoy admin interface should now be available on http://localhost:9902.

.. code-block:: console

   $ curl -v localhost:9902
   ...

.. note::

   When merging ``yaml`` lists (e.g. :ref:`listeners <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/config/listener/v3/listener.proto>`
   or :ref:`clusters <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/service/cluster/v3/cds.proto>`) the merged configurations
   are appended.

   You cannot therefore use an override file to change the configurations of previously specified
   :ref:`listeners <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/config/listener/v3/listener.proto>` or
   :ref:`clusters <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/service/cluster/v3/cds.proto>`

Validating your Envoy configuration
-----------------------------------

You can start Envoy in :option:`validate mode <--mode>`.

This allows you to check that Envoy is able to start with your configuration, without actually starting
or restarting the service, or making any network connections.

If the configuration is valid the process will print ``OK`` and exit with a return code of ``0``.

For invalid configuration the process will print the errors and exit with ``1``.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy --mode validate -c my-envoy-config.yaml
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][main] [source/server/server.cc:583] runtime: layers:
         - name: base
           static_layer:
             {}
         - name: admin
           admin_layer:
             {}
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:95] loading tracing configuration
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:70] loading 0 static secret(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:76] loading 1 cluster(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.546][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:80] loading 1 listener(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.549][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:121] loading stats sink configuration
         configuration 'my-envoy-config.yaml' OK

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm \
               -v $(pwd)/my-envoy-config.yaml:/my-envoy-config.yaml \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   --mode validate \
                   -c my-envoy-config.yaml
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][main] [source/server/server.cc:583] runtime: layers:
         - name: base
           static_layer:
             {}
         - name: admin
           admin_layer:
             {}
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:95] loading tracing configuration
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:70] loading 0 static secret(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.543][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:76] loading 1 cluster(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.546][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:80] loading 1 listener(s)
         [2020-11-08 12:36:06.549][11][info][config] [source/server/configuration_impl.cc:121] loading stats sink configuration
         configuration 'my-envoy-config.yaml' OK

Envoy logging
-------------

By default Envoy system logs are sent to ``/dev/stderr``.

This can be overridden using :option:`--log-path`.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ mkdir logs
         $ envoy -c envoy-demo.yaml --log-path logs/custom.log

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ mkdir logs
         $ chmod go+rwx logs/
         $ docker run --rm -it \
               -p 10000:10000 \
               -v $(pwd)/logs:/logs \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   -c /etc/envoy/envoy.yaml \
                   --log-path logs/custom.log

:ref:`Access log <arch_overview_access_logs>` paths can be set for the
:ref:`admin interface <start_quick_start_admin>`, and for configured
:ref:`listeners <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/config/listener/v3/listener.proto>`.

The :download:`demo configuration <_include/envoy-demo.yaml>` is configured with a
:ref:`listener <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/config/listener/v3/listener.proto>` that logs access
to ``/dev/stdout``:

.. literalinclude:: _include/envoy-demo.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 12
   :lines: 12-22
   :emphasize-lines: 4-8

The default configuration in the Envoy Docker container also logs access in this way.

Logging to ``/dev/stderr`` and ``/dev/stdout`` for system and access logs respectively can
be useful when running Envoy inside a container as the streams can be separated, and logging requires no
additional files or directories to be mounted.

Some Envoy :ref:`filters and extensions <api-v3_config>` may also have additional logging capabilities.

Envoy can be configured to log to :ref:`different formats <config_access_log>`, and to
:ref:`different outputs <api-v3_config_accesslog>` in addition to files and ``stdout/err``.

.. note::

   If you are running Envoy on a Windows system Envoy will output to ``CON`` by default.

   This can also be used as a logging path when configuring logging.

Debugging Envoy
---------------

The log level for Envoy system logs can be set using the :option:`-l or --log-level <--log-level>` option.

The available log levels are:

- ``trace``
- ``debug``
- ``info``
- ``warning/warn``
- ``error``
- ``critical``
- ``off``

The default  is ``info``.

You can also set the log level for specific components using the :option:`--component-log-level` option.

The following example inhibits all logging except for the ``upstream`` and ``connection`` components,
which are set to ``debug`` and ``trace`` respectively.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: System

      .. code-block:: console

         $ envoy -c envoy-demo.yaml -l off --component-log-level upstream:debug,connection:trace
         ...

   .. tab:: Docker

      .. substitution-code-block:: console

         $ docker run --rm -d \
               -p 9901:9901 \
               -p 10000:10000 \
               envoyproxy/|envoy_docker_image| \
                   -c /etc/envoy/envoy.yaml \
                   -l off \
                   --component-log-level upstream:debug,connection:trace
         ...

.. tip::

   See ``ALL_LOGGER_IDS`` in :repo:`logger.h </source/common/common/logger.h#L29>` for a list of components.
