docs/root/configuration/listeners/stats.rst, before:

.. _config_listener_stats:

Statistics
==========

Listener
--------

Every listener has a statistics tree rooted at *listener.<address>.* (or *listener.<stat_prefix>.* if
:ref:`stat_prefix <envoy_v3_api_field_config.listener.v3.Listener.stat_prefix>` is non-empty)
with the following statistics:

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_cx_total, Counter, Total connections
   downstream_cx_destroy, Counter, Total destroyed connections
   downstream_cx_active, Gauge, Total active connections
   downstream_cx_length_ms, Histogram, Connection length milliseconds
   downstream_cx_transport_socket_connect_timeout, Counter, Total connections that timed out during transport socket connection negotiation
   downstream_cx_overflow, Counter, Total connections rejected due to enforcement of listener connection limit
   downstream_cx_overload_reject, Counter, Total connections rejected due to configured overload actions
   downstream_global_cx_overflow, Counter, Total connections rejected due to enforcement of global connection limit
   connections_accepted_per_socket_event, Histogram, Number of connections accepted per listener socket event
   downstream_pre_cx_timeout, Counter, Sockets that timed out during listener filter processing
   downstream_pre_cx_active, Gauge, Sockets currently undergoing listener filter processing
   extension_config_missing, Counter, Total connections closed due to missing listener filter extension configuration
   network_extension_config_missing, Counter, Total connections closed due to missing network filter extension configuration
   global_cx_overflow, Counter, Total connections rejected due to enforcement of the global connection limit
   no_filter_chain_match, Counter, Total connections that didn't match any filter chain
   downstream_listener_filter_remote_close, Counter, Total connections closed by remote when peek data for listener filters
   downstream_listener_filter_error, Counter, Total numbers of read errors when peeking data for listener filters

.. _config_listener_stats_tls:

TLS statistics
--------------

The following TLS statistics are rooted at *listener.<address>.ssl.*:

.. include:: ../../_include/ssl_stats.rst

.. _config_listener_stats_tcp:

TCP statistics
--------------

The following TCP statistics, which are available when using the :ref:`TCP stats transport socket <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.transport_sockets.tcp_stats.v3.Config>`,
are rooted at *listener.<address>.tcp_stats.*:

.. include:: ../../_include/tcp_stats.rst

.. _config_listener_stats_udp:

UDP statistics
--------------

The following UDP statistics are available for UDP listeners and are rooted at
*listener.<address>.udp.*:

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_rx_datagram_dropped, Counter, Number of datagrams dropped due to kernel overflow or truncation

.. _config_listener_stats_per_handler:

Per-handler Listener Stats
--------------------------

Every listener additionally has a statistics tree rooted at *listener.<address>.<handler>.* which
contains *per-handler* statistics. As described in the
:ref:`threading model <arch_overview_threading>` documentation, Envoy has a threading model which
includes the *main thread* as well as a number of *worker threads* which are controlled by the
:option:`--concurrency` option. Along these lines, *<handler>* is equal to *main_thread*,
*worker_0*, *worker_1*, etc. These statistics can be used to look for per-handler/worker imbalance
on either accepted or active connections.

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_cx_total, Counter, Total connections on this handler.
   downstream_cx_active, Gauge, Total active connections on this handler.

.. _config_listener_manager_stats:

Listener manager
----------------

The listener manager has a statistics tree rooted at *listener_manager.* with the following
statistics. Any ``:`` character in the stats name is replaced with ``_``.

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   listener_added, Counter, Total listeners added (either via static config or LDS).
   listener_modified, Counter, Total listeners modified (via LDS).
   listener_removed, Counter, Total listeners removed (via LDS).
   listener_stopped, Counter, Total listeners stopped.
   listener_create_success, Counter, Total listener objects successfully added to workers.
   listener_create_failure, Counter, Total failed listener object additions to workers.
   listener_in_place_updated, Counter, Total listener objects created to execute filter chain update path.
   total_filter_chains_draining, Gauge, Number of currently draining filter chains.
   total_listeners_warming, Gauge, Number of currently warming listeners.
   total_listeners_active, Gauge, Number of currently active listeners.
   total_listeners_draining, Gauge, Number of currently draining listeners.
   workers_started, Gauge, A boolean (1 if started and 0 otherwise) that indicates whether listeners have been initialized on workers.

Commit message:

quic: add debug visitor to export various quic stats from quiche (#36813)
Signed-off-by: Greg Greenway <ggreenway@apple.com>

docs/root/configuration/listeners/stats.rst, after:

.. _config_listener_stats:

Statistics
==========

Listener
--------

Every listener has a statistics tree rooted at *listener.<address>.* (or *listener.<stat_prefix>.* if
:ref:`stat_prefix <envoy_v3_api_field_config.listener.v3.Listener.stat_prefix>` is non-empty)
with the following statistics:

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_cx_total, Counter, Total connections
   downstream_cx_destroy, Counter, Total destroyed connections
   downstream_cx_active, Gauge, Total active connections
   downstream_cx_length_ms, Histogram, Connection length milliseconds
   downstream_cx_transport_socket_connect_timeout, Counter, Total connections that timed out during transport socket connection negotiation
   downstream_cx_overflow, Counter, Total connections rejected due to enforcement of listener connection limit
   downstream_cx_overload_reject, Counter, Total connections rejected due to configured overload actions
   downstream_global_cx_overflow, Counter, Total connections rejected due to enforcement of global connection limit
   connections_accepted_per_socket_event, Histogram, Number of connections accepted per listener socket event
   downstream_pre_cx_timeout, Counter, Sockets that timed out during listener filter processing
   downstream_pre_cx_active, Gauge, Sockets currently undergoing listener filter processing
   extension_config_missing, Counter, Total connections closed due to missing listener filter extension configuration
   network_extension_config_missing, Counter, Total connections closed due to missing network filter extension configuration
   global_cx_overflow, Counter, Total connections rejected due to enforcement of the global connection limit
   no_filter_chain_match, Counter, Total connections that didn't match any filter chain
   downstream_listener_filter_remote_close, Counter, Total connections closed by remote when peek data for listener filters
   downstream_listener_filter_error, Counter, Total numbers of read errors when peeking data for listener filters

.. _config_listener_stats_tls:

TLS statistics
--------------

The following TLS statistics are rooted at *listener.<address>.ssl.*:

.. include:: ../../_include/ssl_stats.rst

.. _config_listener_stats_tcp:

TCP statistics
--------------

The following TCP statistics, which are available when using the :ref:`TCP stats transport socket <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.transport_sockets.tcp_stats.v3.Config>`,
are rooted at *listener.<address>.tcp_stats.*:

.. include:: ../../_include/tcp_stats.rst

.. _config_listener_stats_udp:

UDP statistics
--------------

The following UDP statistics are available for UDP listeners and are rooted at
*listener.<address>.udp.*:

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_rx_datagram_dropped, Counter, Number of datagrams dropped due to kernel overflow or truncation

.. _config_listener_stats_quic:

QUIC statistics
---------------

The following QUIC statistics, which are available when using the :ref:`QUIC stats debug visitor <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.quic.connection_debug_visitor.quic_stats.v3.Config>`,
are rooted at *listener.<address>.quic_stats.*:

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   cx_tx_packets_total, Counter, Total packets transmitted
   cx_tx_packets_retransmitted_total, Counter, Total packets retransmitted
   cx_tx_amplification_throttling_total, Counter, Total number of packets throttled during the server handshake response. This often indicates that the TLS certificate chain is too long to be transmitted without an additional network round trip.
   cx_rx_packets_total, Counter, Total number of packets received
   cx_path_degrading_total, Counter, Number of times that network path degradation was detected
   cx_forward_progress_after_path_degrading_total, Counter, Number of times that forward progress was made after the path degraded
   cx_rtt_us, Histogram, Smoothed round trip time estimate in microseconds
   cx_tx_estimated_bandwidth, Histogram, Estimated connection bandwith in bytes per second
   cx_tx_percent_retransmitted_packets, Histogram, Percent of packets on a connection which were retransmistted
   cx_tx_mtu, Histogram, The maximum packet size that will be sent for a connection
   cx_rx_mtu, Histogram, The size of the largest packet received from the peer

.. _config_listener_stats_per_handler:

Per-handler Listener Stats
--------------------------

Every listener additionally has a statistics tree rooted at *listener.<address>.<handler>.* which
contains *per-handler* statistics. As described in the
:ref:`threading model <arch_overview_threading>` documentation, Envoy has a threading model which
includes the *main thread* as well as a number of *worker threads* which are controlled by the
:option:`--concurrency` option. Along these lines, *<handler>* is equal to *main_thread*,
*worker_0*, *worker_1*, etc. These statistics can be used to look for per-handler/worker imbalance
on either accepted or active connections.

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_cx_total, Counter, Total connections on this handler.
   downstream_cx_active, Gauge, Total active connections on this handler.

.. _config_listener_manager_stats:

Listener manager
----------------

The listener manager has a statistics tree rooted at *listener_manager.* with the following
statistics. Any ``:`` character in the stats name is replaced with ``_``.

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   listener_added, Counter, Total listeners added (either via static config or LDS).
   listener_modified, Counter, Total listeners modified (via LDS).
   listener_removed, Counter, Total listeners removed (via LDS).
   listener_stopped, Counter, Total listeners stopped.
   listener_create_success, Counter, Total listener objects successfully added to workers.
   listener_create_failure, Counter, Total failed listener object additions to workers.
   listener_in_place_updated, Counter, Total listener objects created to execute filter chain update path.
   total_filter_chains_draining, Gauge, Number of currently draining filter chains.
   total_listeners_warming, Gauge, Number of currently warming listeners.
   total_listeners_active, Gauge, Number of currently active listeners.
   total_listeners_draining, Gauge, Number of currently draining listeners.
   workers_started, Gauge, A boolean (1 if started and 0 otherwise) that indicates whether listeners have been initialized on workers.
