docs/root/configuration/operations/tools/router_check.rst, before:

.. _config_tools_router_check_tool:

Route table check tool
======================

.. note::

  The following configuration is for the route table check tool only and is not part of the Envoy binary.
  The route table check tool is a standalone binary that can be used to verify Envoy's routing for a given configuration
  file.

The following specifies input to the route table check tool. The route table check tool checks if
the route returned by a :ref:`router <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.route.v3.RouteConfiguration>` matches what is expected.
The tool can be used to check cluster name, virtual cluster name,
virtual host name, manual path rewrite, manual host rewrite, path redirect, and
header field matches. Extensions for other test cases can be added. Details about installing the tool
and sample tool input/output can be found at :ref:`installation <install_tools_route_table_check_tool>`.

The route table check tool config is composed of an array of json test objects. Each test object is composed of
three parts.

Test name
  This field specifies the name of each test object.

Input values
  The input value fields specify the parameters to be passed to the router. Example input fields include
  the :authority, :path, and :method header fields. The :authority and :path fields specify the url
  sent to the router and are required. All other input fields are optional.

Validate
  The validate fields specify the expected values and test cases to check. At least one test
  case is required.

A simple tool configuration json has one test case and is written as follows. The test
expects a cluster name match of "instant-server".::

   tests
   - test_name: Cluster_name_test
     input:
       authority: api.lyft.com
       path: /api/locations
     validate:
       cluster_name: instant-server

.. code-block:: yaml

  tests
  - test_name: ...
    input:
      authority: ...
      path: ...
      method: ...
      internal: ...
      random_value: ...
      ssl: ...
      runtime: ...
      additional_request_headers:
        - key: ...
          value: ...
      additional_response_headers:
        - key: ...
          value: ...
    validate:
      cluster_name: ...
      virtual_cluster_name: ...
      virtual_host_name: ...
      host_rewrite: ...
      path_rewrite: ...
      path_redirect: ...
      request_header_matches:
        - name: ...
          string_match:
            exact: ...
      response_header_matches:
        - name: ...
          string_match:
            exact: ...
        - name: ...
          presence_match: ...

test_name
  *(required, string)* The name of a test object.

input
  *(required, object)* Input values sent to the router that determine the returned route.

  authority
    *(required, string)* The url authority. This value along with the path parameter define
    the url to be matched. An example authority value is "api.lyft.com".

  path
    *(required, string)* The url path. An example path value is "/foo".

  method
    *(required, string)* The request method. If not specified, the default method is GET.

  internal
    *(optional, boolean)* A flag that determines whether to set x-envoy-internal to "true".
    If not specified, or if internal is equal to false, x-envoy-internal is not set.

  random_value
    *(optional, integer)* An integer used to identify the target for weighted cluster selection
    and as a factor for the routing engine to decide whether a runtime based route takes effect.
    The default value of random_value is 0. For routes with runtime fraction numerators of 0,
    the route checker tool changes the numerators to 1 so they can be tested with random_value
    set to 0 to simulate the route being enabled and random_value set to any int >= 1 to
    simulate the route being disabled.

  ssl
    *(optional, boolean)* A flag that determines whether to set x-forwarded-proto to https or http.
    By setting x-forwarded-proto to a given protocol, the tool is able to simulate the behavior of
    a client issuing a request via http or https. By default ssl is false which corresponds to
    x-forwarded-proto set to http.

  runtime
    *(optional, string)* A string representing the runtime setting to enable for the test. The runtime
    setting along with the random_value is used by the router to decide if the route should be enabled.
    Only a random_value lesser than the fractional percentage defined on the route entry enables the
    route.

  additional_request_headers, additional_response_headers
    *(optional, array)*  Additional headers to be added as input for route determination. The "authority",
    "path", "method", "x-forwarded-proto", and "x-envoy-internal" fields are specified by the other config
    options and should not be set here.

    key
      *(required, string)* The name of the header field to add.

    value
      *(required, string)* The value of the header field to add.

validate
  *(required, object)* The validate object specifies the returned route parameters to match. At least one
  test parameter must be specified. Use "" (empty string) to indicate that no return value is expected.
  For example, to test that no cluster match is expected use {"cluster_name": ""}.

  cluster_name
    *(optional, string)* Match the cluster name.

  virtual_cluster_name
    *(optional, string)* Match the virtual cluster name.

  virtual_host_name
    *(optional, string)* Match the virtual host name.

  host_rewrite
    *(optional, string)* Match the host header field after rewrite.

  path_rewrite
    *(optional, string)* Match the path header field after rewrite.

  path_redirect
    *(optional, string)* Match the returned redirect path.

  code_redirect
    *(optional, integer)* Match the redirect response code.

  request_header_fields, response_header_fields
    *(optional, array, deprecated)*  Match the listed header fields. Example header fields include the "path", "cookie",
    and "date" fields. The header fields are checked after all other test cases. Thus, the header fields checked
    will be those of the redirected or rewritten routes when applicable.
    These fields are deprecated. Use request_header_matches, response_header_matches instead.

    key
      *(required, string)* The name of the header field to match.

    value
      *(required, string)* The value of the header field to match.

  request_header_matches, response_header_matches
    *(optional, array)*  Matchers for the listed headers. Example header fields include the "path", "cookie",
    and "date" fields, as well as custom headers set in the input or by the route. The header fields are checked
    after all other test cases. Thus, the header fields checked will be those of the redirected or rewritten
    routes when applicable.
    - Matchers are specified as :ref:`HeaderMatchers <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.route.v3.headermatcher>`, and behave the same way.

Coverage
--------

The router check tool will report route coverage at the end of a successful test run.

.. code:: bash

  > bazel-bin/test/tools/router_check/router_check_tool --config-path ... --test-path ...
  Current route coverage: 0.0744863

This reporting can be leveraged to enforce a minimum coverage percentage by using
the ``-f`` or ``--fail-under`` flag. If coverage falls below this percentage the test
run will fail.

.. code:: bash

  > bazel-bin/test/tools/router_check/router_check_tool --config-path ... --test-path ... --fail-under 8
  Current route coverage: 7.44863%
  Failed to meet coverage requirement: 8%


By default the coverage report measures test coverage by checking that at least one field is
verified for every route. However, this can leave holes in the tests where fields
aren't validated and later changed. For more comprehensive coverage you can add a flag,
``--covall``, which will calculate coverage taking into account all of the possible
fields that could be tested.

.. code:: bash

  > bazel-bin/test/tools/router_check/router_check_tool --config-path ... --test-path ... --f 7 --covall
  Current route coverage: 6.2948%
  Failed to meet coverage requirement: 7%

Commit message:

router_check_tool: Load runtime flags before running the tests
Signed-off-by: Fernando Cainelli <fernando.cainelli-external@getyourguide.com>

docs/root/configuration/operations/tools/router_check.rst, after:

.. _config_tools_router_check_tool:

Route table check tool
======================

.. note::

  The following configuration is for the route table check tool only and is not part of the Envoy binary.
  The route table check tool is a standalone binary that can be used to verify Envoy's routing for a given configuration
  file.

The following specifies input to the route table check tool. The route table check tool checks if
the route returned by a :ref:`router <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.route.v3.RouteConfiguration>` matches what is expected.
The tool can be used to check cluster name, virtual cluster name,
virtual host name, manual path rewrite, manual host rewrite, path redirect, and
header field matches. Extensions for other test cases can be added. Details about installing the tool
and sample tool input/output can be found at :ref:`installation <install_tools_route_table_check_tool>`.

The tests in the route table check tool config is composed of an array of json test objects. Each test object is composed of
three parts.

Test name
  This field specifies the name of each test object.

Input values
  The input value fields specify the parameters to be passed to the router. Example input fields include
  the :authority, :path, and :method header fields. The :authority and :path fields specify the url
  sent to the router and are required. All other input fields are optional.

Validate
  The validate fields specify the expected values and test cases to check. At least one test
  case is required.

The configuration also allows runtime flags to be set prior to running the tests.

A simple tool configuration json has one test case and is written as follows. The test
expects a cluster name match of "instant-server".::

   runtime:
     re2.max_program_size.error_level: 32768
   tests:
   - test_name: Cluster_name_test
     input:
       authority: api.lyft.com
       path: /api/locations
     validate:
       cluster_name: instant-server

.. code-block:: yaml

  runtime: ...
  tests:
  - test_name: ...
    input:
      authority: ...
      path: ...
      method: ...
      internal: ...
      random_value: ...
      ssl: ...
      runtime: ...
      additional_request_headers:
        - key: ...
          value: ...
      additional_response_headers:
        - key: ...
          value: ...
    validate:
      cluster_name: ...
      virtual_cluster_name: ...
      virtual_host_name: ...
      host_rewrite: ...
      path_rewrite: ...
      path_redirect: ...
      request_header_matches:
        - name: ...
          string_match:
            exact: ...
      response_header_matches:
        - name: ...
          string_match:
            exact: ...
        - name: ...
          presence_match: ...

test_name
  *(required, string)* The name of a test object.

input
  *(required, object)* Input values sent to the router that determine the returned route.

  authority
    *(required, string)* The url authority. This value along with the path parameter define
    the url to be matched. An example authority value is "api.lyft.com".

  path
    *(required, string)* The url path. An example path value is "/foo".

  method
    *(required, string)* The request method. If not specified, the default method is GET.

  internal
    *(optional, boolean)* A flag that determines whether to set x-envoy-internal to "true".
    If not specified, or if internal is equal to false, x-envoy-internal is not set.

  random_value
    *(optional, integer)* An integer used to identify the target for weighted cluster selection
    and as a factor for the routing engine to decide whether a runtime based route takes effect.
    The default value of random_value is 0. For routes with runtime fraction numerators of 0,
    the route checker tool changes the numerators to 1 so they can be tested with random_value
    set to 0 to simulate the route being enabled and random_value set to any int >= 1 to
    simulate the route being disabled.

  ssl
    *(optional, boolean)* A flag that determines whether to set x-forwarded-proto to https or http.
    By setting x-forwarded-proto to a given protocol, the tool is able to simulate the behavior of
    a client issuing a request via http or https. By default ssl is false which corresponds to
    x-forwarded-proto set to http.

  runtime
    *(optional, string)* A string representing the runtime setting to enable for the test. The runtime
    setting along with the random_value is used by the router to decide if the route should be enabled.
    Only a random_value lesser than the fractional percentage defined on the route entry enables the
    route.

  additional_request_headers, additional_response_headers
    *(optional, array)*  Additional headers to be added as input for route determination. The "authority",
    "path", "method", "x-forwarded-proto", and "x-envoy-internal" fields are specified by the other config
    options and should not be set here.

    key
      *(required, string)* The name of the header field to add.

    value
      *(required, string)* The value of the header field to add.

validate
  *(required, object)* The validate object specifies the returned route parameters to match. At least one
  test parameter must be specified. Use "" (empty string) to indicate that no return value is expected.
  For example, to test that no cluster match is expected use {"cluster_name": ""}.

  cluster_name
    *(optional, string)* Match the cluster name.

  virtual_cluster_name
    *(optional, string)* Match the virtual cluster name.

  virtual_host_name
    *(optional, string)* Match the virtual host name.

  host_rewrite
    *(optional, string)* Match the host header field after rewrite.

  path_rewrite
    *(optional, string)* Match the path header field after rewrite.

  path_redirect
    *(optional, string)* Match the returned redirect path.

  code_redirect
    *(optional, integer)* Match the redirect response code.

  request_header_fields, response_header_fields
    *(optional, array, deprecated)*  Match the listed header fields. Example header fields include the "path", "cookie",
    and "date" fields. The header fields are checked after all other test cases. Thus, the header fields checked
    will be those of the redirected or rewritten routes when applicable.
    These fields are deprecated. Use request_header_matches, response_header_matches instead.

    key
      *(required, string)* The name of the header field to match.

    value
      *(required, string)* The value of the header field to match.

  request_header_matches, response_header_matches
    *(optional, array)*  Matchers for the listed headers. Example header fields include the "path", "cookie",
    and "date" fields, as well as custom headers set in the input or by the route. The header fields are checked
    after all other test cases. Thus, the header fields checked will be those of the redirected or rewritten
    routes when applicable.
    - Matchers are specified as :ref:`HeaderMatchers <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.route.v3.headermatcher>`, and behave the same way.

Coverage
--------

The router check tool will report route coverage at the end of a successful test run.

.. code:: bash

  > bazel-bin/test/tools/router_check/router_check_tool --config-path ... --test-path ...
  Current route coverage: 0.0744863

This reporting can be leveraged to enforce a minimum coverage percentage by using
the ``-f`` or ``--fail-under`` flag. If coverage falls below this percentage the test
run will fail.

.. code:: bash

  > bazel-bin/test/tools/router_check/router_check_tool --config-path ... --test-path ... --fail-under 8
  Current route coverage: 7.44863%
  Failed to meet coverage requirement: 8%


By default the coverage report measures test coverage by checking that at least one field is
verified for every route. However, this can leave holes in the tests where fields
aren't validated and later changed. For more comprehensive coverage you can add a flag,
``--covall``, which will calculate coverage taking into account all of the possible
fields that could be tested.

.. code:: bash

  > bazel-bin/test/tools/router_check/router_check_tool --config-path ... --test-path ... --f 7 --covall
  Current route coverage: 6.2948%
  Failed to meet coverage requirement: 7%
