docs/root/intro/arch_overview/http/upgrades.rst, before:

.. _arch_overview_upgrades:

HTTP upgrades
===========================

Envoy Upgrade support is intended mainly for WebSocket and CONNECT support, but may be used for
arbitrary upgrades as well. Upgrades pass both the HTTP headers and the upgrade payload
through an HTTP filter chain. One may configure the
:ref:`upgrade_configs <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.upgrade_configs>`
with or without custom filter chains. If only the
:ref:`upgrade_type <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.UpgradeConfig.upgrade_type>`
is specified, both the upgrade headers, any request and response body, and HTTP data payload will
pass through the default HTTP filter chain. To avoid the use of HTTP-only filters for upgrade payload,
one can set up custom
:ref:`filters <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.UpgradeConfig.filters>`
for the given upgrade type, up to and including only using the router filter to send the HTTP
data upstream.

Upgrades can be enabled or disabled on a :ref:`per-route <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.upgrade_configs>` basis.
Any per-route enabling/disabling automatically overrides HttpConnectionManager configuration as
laid out below, but custom filter chains can only be configured on a per-HttpConnectionManager basis.

+-----------------------+-------------------------+-------------------+
| *HCM Upgrade Enabled* | *Route Upgrade Enabled* | *Upgrade Enabled* |
+=======================+=========================+===================+
| T (Default)           | T (Default)             | T                 |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+-------------------+
| T (Default)           | F                       | F                 |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+-------------------+
| F                     | T (Default)             | T                 |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+-------------------+
| F                     | F                       | F                 |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+-------------------+

Note that the statistics for upgrades are all bundled together so WebSocket and other upgrades
:ref:`statistics <config_http_conn_man_stats>` are tracked by stats such as
downstream_cx_upgrades_total and downstream_cx_upgrades_active

Websocket over HTTP/2 hops
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While HTTP/2 support for WebSockets is off by default, Envoy does support tunneling WebSockets over
HTTP/2 streams for deployments that prefer a uniform HTTP/2 mesh throughout; this enables, for example,
a deployment of the form:

[Client] ---- HTTP/1.1 ---- [Front Envoy] ---- HTTP/2 ---- [Sidecar Envoy ---- H1  ---- App]

In this case, if a client is for example using WebSocket, we want the Websocket to arrive at the
upstream server functionally intact, which means it needs to traverse the HTTP/2 hop.

This is accomplished via `Extended CONNECT (RFC8441) <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8441>`_ support,
turned on by setting :ref:`allow_connect <envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.Http2ProtocolOptions.allow_connect>`
true at the second layer Envoy. The
WebSocket request will be transformed into an HTTP/2 CONNECT stream, with :protocol header
indicating the original upgrade, traverse the HTTP/2 hop, and be downgraded back into an HTTP/1
WebSocket Upgrade. This same Upgrade-CONNECT-Upgrade transformation will be performed on any
HTTP/2 hop, with the documented flaw that the HTTP/1.1 method is always assumed to be GET.
Non-WebSocket upgrades are allowed to use any valid HTTP method (i.e. POST) and the current
upgrade/downgrade mechanism will drop the original method and transform the Upgrade request to
a GET method on the final Envoy-Upstream hop.

Note that the HTTP/2 upgrade path has very strict HTTP/1.1 compliance, so will not proxy WebSocket
upgrade requests or responses with bodies.

CONNECT support
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Envoy CONNECT support is off by default (Envoy will send an internally generated 403 in response to
CONNECT requests). CONNECT support can be enabled via the upgrade options described above, setting
the upgrade value to the special keyword "CONNECT".

While for HTTP/2, CONNECT request may have a path, in general and for HTTP/1.1 CONNECT requests do
not have a path, and can only be matched using a
:ref:`connect_matcher <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.route.v3.RouteMatch.ConnectMatcher>`. Please also note
that when doing non-wildcard domain matching for CONNECT requests, the CONNECT target is  matched
rather than the Host/Authority header. You may need to include the port (e.g. "hostname:port") to
successfully match.

Envoy can handle CONNECT in one of two ways, either proxying the CONNECT headers through as if they
were any other request, and letting the upstream terminate the CONNECT request, or by terminating the
CONNECT request, and forwarding the payload as raw TCP data. When CONNECT upgrade configuration is
set up, the default behavior is to proxy the CONNECT request, treating it like any other request using
the upgrade path.
If termination is desired, this can be accomplished by setting
:ref:`connect_config <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.UpgradeConfig.connect_config>`
If it that message is present for CONNECT requests, the router filter will strip the request headers,
and forward the HTTP payload upstream. On receipt of initial TCP data from upstream, the router
will synthesize 200 response headers, and then forward the TCP data as the HTTP response body.

.. warning::
  This mode of CONNECT support can create major security holes if not configured correctly, as the upstream
  will be forwarded *unsanitized* headers if they are in the body payload. Please use with caution

For an example of proxying connect, please see :repo:`configs/proxy_connect.yaml <configs/proxy_connect.yaml>`
For an example of terminating connect, please see :repo:`configs/terminate_connect.yaml <configs/terminate_connect.yaml>`

.. _tunneling-tcp-over-http:

Tunneling TCP over HTTP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Envoy also has support for tunneling raw TCP over HTTP CONNECT requests. Find
below some usage scenarios.

HTTP/2 CONNECT can be used to proxy multiplexed TCP over pre-warmed secure connections and amortize the cost of any TLS
handshake.
An example set up proxying SMTP would look something like this:

[SMTP Upstream] --- raw SMTP --- [L2 Envoy]  --- SMTP tunneled over HTTP/2  --- [L1 Envoy]  --- raw SMTP  --- [Client]

HTTP/1.1 CONNECT can be used to have TCP client connecting to its own
destination passing through an HTTP proxy server (e.g. corporate proxy not
supporting HTTP/2):

[HTTP Server] --- raw HTTP --- [L2 Envoy]  --- HTTP tunneled over HTTP/1.1  --- [L1 Envoy]  --- raw HTTP  --- [HTTP Client]

Note that when using HTTP/1 CONNECT you will end up having a TCP connection
between L1 and L2 Envoy for each TCP client connection, it is preferable to use
HTTP/2 when you have the choice.

Examples of such a set up can be found in the Envoy example config :repo:`directory <configs/>`.

For HTTP/1.1 run `bazel-bin/source/exe/envoy-static --config-path configs/encapsulate_in_http1_connect.yaml --base-id 1`
and `bazel-bin/source/exe/envoy-static --config-path configs/terminate_http1_connect.yaml`.

For HTTP/2 run `bazel-bin/source/exe/envoy-static --config-path configs/encapsulate_in_http2_connect.yaml --base-id 1`
and `bazel-bin/source/exe/envoy-static --config-path configs/terminate_http2_connect.yaml`.

In both cases you will be running a first Envoy listening for TCP traffic on port 10000 and encapsulating it in an HTTP
CONNECT request, and a second one listening on 10001, stripping the CONNECT headers, and forwarding the 
original TCP upstream, in this case to google.com.

Envoy waits for the HTTP tunnel to be established (i.e. a successful response to the  CONNECT request is received),
before start streaming the downstream TCP data to the upstream.

Commit message:

network: TCP proxying over HTTP POST (#14552)
Commit Message: Add support proxying TCP over HTTP/2 or HTTP/1.1 POST to tcp_proxy. It's controlled by tcp_proxy filter configuration. Also add support adding additional headers to the proxy requests to coordinate with the upstream. In addition, add allo_post config to router, which allow triggering the regular TCP decaping from a POST request payload.

Additional Description:  N/A
Risk Level: Low
Testing: Unit tests. Integration tests.
Docs Changes: Added
Release Notes: Added
Platform Specific Features: N/A
Fixes #14234 

cc @alyssawilk @mattklein123

Signed-off-by: Wenlei (Frank) He <wlhe@google.com>

docs/root/intro/arch_overview/http/upgrades.rst, after:

.. _arch_overview_upgrades:

HTTP upgrades
===========================

Envoy Upgrade support is intended mainly for WebSocket and CONNECT support, but may be used for
arbitrary upgrades as well. Upgrades pass both the HTTP headers and the upgrade payload
through an HTTP filter chain. One may configure the
:ref:`upgrade_configs <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.upgrade_configs>`
with or without custom filter chains. If only the
:ref:`upgrade_type <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.UpgradeConfig.upgrade_type>`
is specified, both the upgrade headers, any request and response body, and HTTP data payload will
pass through the default HTTP filter chain. To avoid the use of HTTP-only filters for upgrade payload,
one can set up custom
:ref:`filters <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.UpgradeConfig.filters>`
for the given upgrade type, up to and including only using the router filter to send the HTTP
data upstream.

Upgrades can be enabled or disabled on a :ref:`per-route <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.upgrade_configs>` basis.
Any per-route enabling/disabling automatically overrides HttpConnectionManager configuration as
laid out below, but custom filter chains can only be configured on a per-HttpConnectionManager basis.

+-----------------------+-------------------------+-------------------+
| *HCM Upgrade Enabled* | *Route Upgrade Enabled* | *Upgrade Enabled* |
+=======================+=========================+===================+
| T (Default)           | T (Default)             | T                 |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+-------------------+
| T (Default)           | F                       | F                 |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+-------------------+
| F                     | T (Default)             | T                 |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+-------------------+
| F                     | F                       | F                 |
+-----------------------+-------------------------+-------------------+

Note that the statistics for upgrades are all bundled together so WebSocket and other upgrades
:ref:`statistics <config_http_conn_man_stats>` are tracked by stats such as
downstream_cx_upgrades_total and downstream_cx_upgrades_active

Websocket over HTTP/2 hops
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While HTTP/2 support for WebSockets is off by default, Envoy does support tunneling WebSockets over
HTTP/2 streams for deployments that prefer a uniform HTTP/2 mesh throughout; this enables, for example,
a deployment of the form:

[Client] ---- HTTP/1.1 ---- [Front Envoy] ---- HTTP/2 ---- [Sidecar Envoy ---- H1  ---- App]

In this case, if a client is for example using WebSocket, we want the Websocket to arrive at the
upstream server functionally intact, which means it needs to traverse the HTTP/2 hop.

This is accomplished via `Extended CONNECT (RFC8441) <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8441>`_ support,
turned on by setting :ref:`allow_connect <envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.Http2ProtocolOptions.allow_connect>`
true at the second layer Envoy. The
WebSocket request will be transformed into an HTTP/2 CONNECT stream, with :protocol header
indicating the original upgrade, traverse the HTTP/2 hop, and be downgraded back into an HTTP/1
WebSocket Upgrade. This same Upgrade-CONNECT-Upgrade transformation will be performed on any
HTTP/2 hop, with the documented flaw that the HTTP/1.1 method is always assumed to be GET.
Non-WebSocket upgrades are allowed to use any valid HTTP method (i.e. POST) and the current
upgrade/downgrade mechanism will drop the original method and transform the Upgrade request to
a GET method on the final Envoy-Upstream hop.

Note that the HTTP/2 upgrade path has very strict HTTP/1.1 compliance, so will not proxy WebSocket
upgrade requests or responses with bodies.

CONNECT support
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Envoy CONNECT support is off by default (Envoy will send an internally generated 403 in response to
CONNECT requests). CONNECT support can be enabled via the upgrade options described above, setting
the upgrade value to the special keyword "CONNECT".

While for HTTP/2, CONNECT request may have a path, in general and for HTTP/1.1 CONNECT requests do
not have a path, and can only be matched using a
:ref:`connect_matcher <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.route.v3.RouteMatch.ConnectMatcher>`. Please also note
that when doing non-wildcard domain matching for CONNECT requests, the CONNECT target is  matched
rather than the Host/Authority header. You may need to include the port (e.g. "hostname:port") to
successfully match.

Envoy can handle CONNECT in one of two ways, either proxying the CONNECT headers through as if they
were any other request, and letting the upstream terminate the CONNECT request, or by terminating the
CONNECT request, and forwarding the payload as raw TCP data. When CONNECT upgrade configuration is
set up, the default behavior is to proxy the CONNECT request, treating it like any other request using
the upgrade path.
If termination is desired, this can be accomplished by setting
:ref:`connect_config <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.UpgradeConfig.connect_config>`
If it that message is present for CONNECT requests, the router filter will strip the request headers,
and forward the HTTP payload upstream. On receipt of initial TCP data from upstream, the router
will synthesize 200 response headers, and then forward the TCP data as the HTTP response body.

.. warning::
  This mode of CONNECT support can create major security holes if not configured correctly, as the upstream
  will be forwarded *unsanitized* headers if they are in the body payload. Please use with caution

For an example of proxying connect, please see :repo:`configs/proxy_connect.yaml <configs/proxy_connect.yaml>`
For an example of terminating connect, please see :repo:`configs/terminate_connect.yaml <configs/terminate_connect.yaml>`

.. _tunneling-tcp-over-http:

Tunneling TCP over HTTP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Envoy also has support for tunneling raw TCP over HTTP CONNECT or HTTP POST requests. Find
below some usage scenarios.

HTTP/2 CONNECT can be used to proxy multiplexed TCP over pre-warmed secure connections and amortize
the cost of any TLS handshake.
An example set up proxying SMTP would look something like this:

[SMTP Upstream] --- raw SMTP --- [L2 Envoy]  --- SMTP tunneled over HTTP/2 CONNECT --- [L1 Envoy]  --- raw SMTP  --- [Client]

HTTP/1.1 CONNECT can be used to have TCP client connecting to its own
destination passing through an HTTP proxy server (e.g. corporate proxy not
supporting HTTP/2):

[HTTP Server] --- raw HTTP --- [L2 Envoy]  --- HTTP tunneled over HTTP/1.1 CONNECT --- [L1 Envoy]  --- raw HTTP  --- [HTTP Client]

Note that when using HTTP/1 CONNECT you will end up having a TCP connection
between L1 and L2 Envoy for each TCP client connection, it is preferable to use
HTTP/2 when you have the choice.

HTTP POST can also be used to proxy multiplexed TCP when intermediate proxies that don't support
CONNECT. An example set up proxying HTTP would look something like this:

[TCP Server] --- raw TCP --- [L2 Envoy]  --- TCP tunneled over HTTP/2 or HTTP/1.1 POST --- [Intermidate Proxies] --- HTTP/2 or HTTP/1.1 POST --- [L1 Envoy]  --- raw TCP  --- [TCP Client]

Examples of such a set up can be found in the Envoy example config :repo:`directory <configs/>`
For HTTP/1.1 CONNECT run `bazel-bin/source/exe/envoy-static --config-path configs/encapsulate_in_http1_connect.yaml --base-id 1`
and `bazel-bin/source/exe/envoy-static --config-path configs/terminate_http1_connect.yaml`.
For HTTP/2 CONNECT run `bazel-bin/source/exe/envoy-static --config-path configs/encapsulate_in_http2_connect.yaml --base-id 1`
and `bazel-bin/source/exe/envoy-static --config-path configs/terminate_http2_connect.yaml`.
For HTTP/2 POST run `bazel-bin/source/exe/envoy-static --config-path configs/encapsulate_in_http2_post.yaml --base-id 1`
and `bazel-bin/source/exe/envoy-static --config-path configs/terminate_http2_post.yaml`.

In all cases you will be running a first Envoy listening for TCP traffic on port 10000 and
encapsulating it in an HTTP CONNECT or HTTP POST request, and a second one listening on 10001,
stripping the CONNECT headers (not needed for POST request), and forwarding the original TCP
upstream, in this case to google.com.

Envoy waits for the HTTP tunnel to be established (i.e. a successful response to the  CONNECT request is received),
before start streaming the downstream TCP data to the upstream.
