.. _arch_overview_tracing:

Tracing
=======

Overview
--------
Distributed tracing allows developers to obtain visualizations of call flows in large service
oriented architectures. It can be invaluable in understanding serialization, parallelism, and
sources of latency. Envoy supports three features related to system wide tracing:

* **Request ID generation**: Envoy will generate UUIDs when needed and populate the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-request-id` HTTP header. Applications can forward the
  x-request-id header for unified logging as well as tracing.
* **External trace service integration**: Envoy supports pluggable external trace visualization
  providers. Currently Envoy supports `LightStep <http://lightstep.com/>`_, `Zipkin <http://zipkin.io/>`_
  or any Zipkin compatible backends (e.g. `Jaeger <https://github.com/jaegertracing/>`_).
  However, support for other tracing providers would not be difficult to add.
* **Client trace ID joining**: The :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-client-trace-id` header can
  be used to join untrusted request IDs to the trusted internal
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-request-id`.

How to initiate a trace
-----------------------
The HTTP connection manager that handles the request must have the :ref:`tracing
<envoy_api_msg_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.Tracing>` object set. There are several ways tracing can be
initiated:

* By an external client via the :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-client-trace-id`
  header.
* By an internal service via the :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-envoy-force-trace`
  header.
* Randomly sampled via the :ref:`random_sampling <config_http_conn_man_runtime_random_sampling>`
  runtime setting.

The router filter is also capable of creating a child span for egress calls via the
:ref:`start_child_span <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.router.v2.Router.start_child_span>` option.

Trace context propagation
-------------------------
Envoy provides the capability for reporting tracing information regarding communications between
services in the mesh. However, to be able to correlate the pieces of tracing information generated
by the various proxies within a call flow, the services must propagate certain trace context between
the inbound and outbound requests.

Whichever tracing provider is being used, the service should propagate the
:ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-request-id` to enable logging across the invoked services
to be correlated.

The tracing providers also require additional context, to enable the parent/child relationships
between the spans (logical units of work) to be understood. This can be achieved by using the
LightStep (via OpenTracing API) or Zipkin tracer directly within the service itself, to extract the
trace context from the inbound request and inject it into any subsequent outbound requests. This
approach would also enable the service to create additional spans, describing work being done
internally within the service, that may be useful when examining the end-to-end trace.

Alternatively the trace context can be manually propagated by the service:

* When using the LightStep tracer, Envoy relies on the service to propagate the
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-ot-span-context` HTTP header
  while sending HTTP requests to other services.

* When using the Zipkin tracer, Envoy relies on the service to propagate the
  B3 HTTP headers (
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-b3-traceid`,
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-b3-spanid`,
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-b3-parentspanid`,
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-b3-sampled`, and
  :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-b3-flags`). The :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-b3-sampled`
  header can also be supplied by an external client to either enable or disable tracing for a particular
  request. In addition, the single :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_b3` header propagation format is
  supported, which is a more compressed format.

What data each trace contains
-----------------------------
An end-to-end trace is comprised of one or more spans. A
span represents a logical unit of work that has a start time and duration and can contain metadata
associated with it. Each span generated by Envoy contains the following data:

* Originating service cluster set via :option:`--service-cluster`.
* Start time and duration of the request.
* Originating host set via :option:`--service-node`.
* Downstream cluster set via the :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_downstream-service-cluster`
  header.
* HTTP URL.
* HTTP method.
* HTTP response code.
* Tracing system-specific metadata.

The span also includes a name (or operation) which by default is defined as the host of the invoked
service. However this can be customized using a :ref:`envoy_api_msg_route.Decorator` on
the route. The name can also be overridden using the
:ref:`config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-decorator-operation` header.

Envoy automatically sends spans to tracing collectors. Depending on the tracing collector,
multiple spans are stitched together using common information such as the globally unique
request ID :ref:`config_http_conn_man_headers_x-request-id` (LightStep) or
the trace ID configuration (Zipkin). See

* :ref:`v2 API reference <envoy_api_msg_config.trace.v2.Tracing>`

for more information on how to setup tracing in Envoy.
