1.13.0 (January 20, 2020)
=========================

Changes
-------

* access log: added FILTER_STATE :ref:`access log formatters <config_access_log_format>` and gRPC access logger.
* admin: added the ability to filter :ref:`/config_dump <operations_admin_interface_config_dump>`.
* access log: added a :ref:`typed JSON logging mode <config_access_log_format_dictionaries>` to output access logs in JSON format with non-string values
* access log: fixed UPSTREAM_LOCAL_ADDRESS :ref:`access log formatters <config_access_log_format>` to work for http requests
* access log: added HOSTNAME.
* api: remove all support for v1
* api: added ability to specify `mode` for :ref:`Pipe <envoy_api_field_core.Pipe.mode>`.
* api: support for the v3 xDS API added. See :ref:`api_supported_versions`.
* aws_request_signing: added new alpha :ref:`HTTP AWS request signing filter <config_http_filters_aws_request_signing>`.
* buffer: remove old implementation
* build: official released binary is now built against libc++.
* cluster: added :ref:`aggregate cluster <arch_overview_aggregate_cluster>` that allows load balancing between clusters.
* config: all category names of internal envoy extensions are prefixed with the 'envoy.' prefix to follow the reverse DNS naming notation.
* decompressor: remove decompressor hard assert failure and replace with an error flag.
* ext_authz: added :ref:`configurable ability<envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.ExtAuthz.include_peer_certificate>` to send the :ref:`certificate<envoy_api_field_service.auth.v2.AttributeContext.Peer.certificate>` to the `ext_authz` service.
* fault: fixed an issue where the http fault filter would repeatedly check the percentage of abort/delay when the `x-envoy-downstream-service-cluster` header was included in the request to ensure that the actual percentage of abort/delay matches the configuration of the filter.
* health check: gRPC health checker sets the gRPC deadline to the configured timeout duration.
* health check: added :ref:`TlsOptions <envoy_api_msg_core.HealthCheck.TlsOptions>` to allow TLS configuration overrides.
* health check: added :ref:`service_name_matcher <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.HttpHealthCheck.service_name_matcher>` to better compare the service name patterns for health check identity.
* http: added strict validation that CONNECT is refused as it is not yet implemented. This can be reversed temporarily by setting the runtime feature `envoy.reloadable_features.strict_method_validation` to false.
* http: added support for http1 trailers. To enable use :ref:`enable_trailers <envoy_api_field_core.Http1ProtocolOptions.enable_trailers>`.
* http: added the ability to sanitize headers nominated by the Connection header. This new behavior is guarded by envoy.reloadable_features.connection_header_sanitization which defaults to true.
* http: blocks unsupported transfer-encodings. Can be reverted temporarily by setting runtime feature `envoy.reloadable_features.reject_unsupported_transfer_encodings` to false.
* http: support :ref:`auto_host_rewrite_header<envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.dynamic_forward_proxy.v2alpha.PerRouteConfig.auto_host_rewrite_header>` in the dynamic forward proxy.
* jwt_authn: added :ref:`allow_missing<envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.jwt_authn.v2alpha.JwtRequirement.allow_missing>` option that accepts request without token but rejects bad request with bad tokens.
* jwt_authn: added :ref:`bypass_cors_preflight<envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.jwt_authn.v2alpha.JwtAuthentication.bypass_cors_preflight>` to allow bypassing the CORS preflight request.
* lb_subset_config: new fallback policy for selectors: :ref:`KEYS_SUBSET<envoy_api_enum_value_Cluster.LbSubsetConfig.LbSubsetSelector.LbSubsetSelectorFallbackPolicy.KEYS_SUBSET>`
* listeners: added :ref:`reuse_port<envoy_api_field_Listener.reuse_port>` option.
* logger: added :ref:`--log-format-escaped <operations_cli>` command line option to escape newline characters in application logs.
* ratelimit: added :ref:`local rate limit <config_network_filters_local_rate_limit>` network filter.
* rbac: added support for matching all subject alt names instead of first in :ref:`principal_name <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.Authenticated.principal_name>`.
* redis: performance improvement for larger split commands by avoiding string copies.
* redis: correctly follow MOVE/ASK redirection for mirrored clusters.
* redis: add :ref:`host_degraded_refresh_threshold <envoy_api_field_config.cluster.redis.RedisClusterConfig.host_degraded_refresh_threshold>` and :ref:`failure_refresh_threshold <envoy_api_field_config.cluster.redis.RedisClusterConfig.failure_refresh_threshold>` to refresh topology when nodes are degraded or when requests fails.
* router: added histograms to show timeout budget usage to the :ref:`cluster stats <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>`.
* router check tool: added support for testing and marking coverage for routes of runtime fraction 0.
* router: added :ref:`request_mirror_policies<envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.request_mirror_policies>` to support sending multiple mirrored requests in one route.
* router: added support for REQ(header-name) :ref:`header formatter <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`.
* router: added support for percentage-based :ref:`retry budgets <envoy_api_field_cluster.CircuitBreakers.Thresholds.retry_budget>`
* router: allow using a :ref:`query parameter <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.HashPolicy.query_parameter>` for HTTP consistent hashing.
* router: exposed DOWNSTREAM_REMOTE_ADDRESS as custom HTTP request/response headers.
* router: added support for :ref:`max_internal_redirects <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.max_internal_redirects>` for configurable maximum internal redirect hops.
* router: skip the Location header when the response code is not a 201 or a 3xx.
* router: added :ref:`auto_sni <envoy_api_field_core.UpstreamHttpProtocolOptions.auto_sni>` to support setting SNI to transport socket for new upstream connections based on the downstream HTTP host/authority header.
* router: added support for HOSTNAME :ref:`header formatter
  <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`.
* server: added the :option:`--disable-extensions` CLI option, to disable extensions at startup.
* server: fixed a bug in config validation for configs with runtime layers.
* server: added :ref:`workers_started <config_listener_manager_stats>` that indicates whether listeners have been fully initialized on workers.
* tcp_proxy: added :ref:`ClusterWeight.metadata_match<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.tcp_proxy.v2.TcpProxy.WeightedCluster.ClusterWeight.metadata_match>`.
* tcp_proxy: added :ref:`hash_policy<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.tcp_proxy.v2.TcpProxy.hash_policy>`.
* thrift_proxy: added support for cluster header based routing.
* thrift_proxy: added stats to the router filter.
* tls: remove TLS 1.0 and 1.1 from client defaults
* tls: added support for :ref:`generic string matcher <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.match_subject_alt_names>` for subject alternative names.
* tracing: added the ability to set custom tags on both the :ref:`HTTP connection manager<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.tracing>` and the :ref:`HTTP route <envoy_api_field_route.Route.tracing>`.
* tracing: added upstream_address tag.
* tracing: added initial support for AWS X-Ray (local sampling rules only) :ref:`X-Ray Tracing <envoy_api_msg_config.trace.v2alpha.XRayConfig>`.
* tracing: added tags for gRPC request path, authority, content-type and timeout.
* udp: added initial support for :ref:`UDP proxy <config_udp_listener_filters_udp_proxy>`

Deprecated
----------

* The `request_headers_for_tags` field in :ref:`HTTP connection manager
  <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.Tracing>`
  has been deprecated in favor of the :ref:`custom_tags
  <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.tracing.custom_tags>` field.
* The `verify_subject_alt_name` field in :ref:`Certificate Validation Context
  <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.verify_subject_alt_name>`
  has been deprecated in favor of the :ref:`match_subject_alt_names
  <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.match_subject_alt_names>` field.
* The `request_mirror_policy` field in :ref:`RouteMatch <envoy_api_msg_route.RouteAction>` has been deprecated in
  favor of the `request_mirror_policies` field.
* The `service_name` field in
  :ref:`HTTP health checker <envoy_api_msg_core.HealthCheck.HttpHealthCheck>` has been deprecated in
  favor of the `service_name_matcher` field.
* The v2 xDS API is deprecated. It will be supported by Envoy until EOY 2020. See
  :ref:`api_supported_versions`.
