1.1.0 (November 30, 2016)
=========================

Changes
-------

* Switch from Jannson to RapidJSON for our JSON library (allowing for a configuration schema in
  1.2.0).
* Upgrade :ref:`recommended version <install_requirements>` of various other libraries.
* Configurable DNS refresh rate for DNS service discovery types.
* Upstream circuit breaker configuration can be :ref:`overridden via runtime
  <config_cluster_manager_cluster_runtime>`.
* :ref:`Zone aware routing support <arch_overview_load_balancing_zone_aware_routing>`.
* Generic header matching routing rule.
* HTTP/2 graceful connection draining (double GOAWAY).
* DynamoDB filter :ref:`per shard statistics <config_http_filters_dynamo>` (pre-release AWS
  feature).
* Initial release of the :ref:`fault injection HTTP filter <config_http_filters_fault_injection>`.
* HTTP :ref:`rate limit filter <config_http_filters_rate_limit>` enhancements (note that the
  configuration for HTTP rate limiting is going to be overhauled in 1.2.0).
* Added :ref:`refused-stream retry policy <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-retry-on>`.
* Multiple :ref:`priority queues <arch_overview_http_routing_priority>` for upstream clusters
  (configurable on a per route basis, with separate connection pools, circuit breakers, etc.).
* Added max connection circuit breaking to the :ref:`TCP proxy filter <arch_overview_tcp_proxy>`.
* Added :ref:`CLI <operations_cli>` options for setting the logging file flush interval as well
  as the drain/shutdown time during hot restart.
* A very large number of performance enhancements for core HTTP/TCP proxy flows as well as a
  few new configuration flags to allow disabling expensive features if they are not needed
  (specifically request ID generation and dynamic response code stats).
* Support Mongo 3.2 in the :ref:`Mongo sniffing filter <config_network_filters_mongo_proxy>`.
* Lots of other small fixes and enhancements not listed.
