1.18.4 (Aug 24, 2021)
=====================

Incompatible Behavior Changes
-----------------------------
*Changes that are expected to cause an incompatibility if applicable; deployment changes are likely required*

Minor Behavior Changes
----------------------
*Changes that may cause incompatibilities for some users, but should not for most*

* http: disable the integration between :ref:`ExtensionWithMatcher <v1.18:envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.common.matching.v3.ExtensionWithMatcher>`
  and HTTP filters by default to reflects its experimental status. This feature can be enabled by seting
  `envoy.reloadable_features.experimental_matching_api` to true.
* http: reject requests with #fragment in the URI path. The fragment is not allowed to be part of request
  URI according to RFC3986 (3.5), RFC7230 (5.1) and RFC 7540 (8.1.2.3). Rejection of requests can be changed
  to stripping the #fragment instead by setting the runtime guard `envoy.reloadable_features.http_reject_path_with_fragment`
  to false. This behavior can further be changed to the deprecated behavior of keeping the fragment by setting the runtime guard
  `envoy.reloadable_features.http_strip_fragment_from_path_unsafe_if_disabled`. This runtime guard must only be set
  to false when existing non-compliant traffic relies on #fragment in URI. When this option is enabled, Envoy request
  authorization extensions may be bypassed. This override and its associated behavior will be decommissioned after the standard deprecation period.
* http: stop processing pending H/2 frames if connection transitioned to a closed state. This behavior can be temporarily reverted by setting the `envoy.reloadable_features.skip_dispatching_frames_for_closed_connection` to false.

Bug Fixes
---------
*Changes expected to improve the state of the world and are unlikely to have negative effects*

* ext_authz: fix the ext_authz filter to correctly merge multiple same headers using the ',' as separator in the check request to the external authorization service.
* http: limit use of deferred resets in the http2 codec to server-side connections. Use of deferred reset for client connections can result in incorrect behavior and performance problems.
* jwt_authn: unauthorized responses now correctly include a `www-authenticate` header.

Removed Config or Runtime
-------------------------
*Normally occurs at the end of the* :ref:`deprecation period <v1.18:deprecated>`

New Features
------------
* listener: added an option when balancing across active listeners and wildcard matching is used to return the listener that matches the IP family type associated with the listener's socket address. It is off by default, but is turned on by default in v1.19. To set change the runtime guard `envoy.reloadable_features.listener_wildcard_match_ip_family` to true.

Deprecated
----------
