1.16.0 (October 8, 2020)
========================

Incompatible Behavior Changes
-----------------------------
*Changes that are expected to cause an incompatibility if applicable; deployment changes are likely required*

* build: added visibility rules for upstream. If these cause visibility related breakage, see notes in :repo:`BUILD <BUILD>`.
* build: tcmalloc changes require Clang 9. This requirement change can be avoided by building with `--define tcmalloc=gperftools` to use the older tcmalloc code.
* config: additional warnings have been added for the use of v2 APIs. These appear as log messages
  and are also captured in the :ref:`deprecated_feature_use <runtime_stats>` counter after server
  initialization.
* dns: `envoy.restart_features.use_apple_api_for_dns_lookups` is on by default. This flag only affects Apple platforms (macOS, iOS). It is incompatible to have the runtime flag set to true at the same time as specifying the ``use_tcp_for_dns_lookups`` option or custom dns resolvers. Doing so will cause failure.
* watchdog: added two guarddogs, breaking the aggregated stats for the single guarddog system. The aggregated stats for the guarddogs will have the following prefixes: `main_thread` and `workers`. Concretely, anything monitoring `server.watchdog_miss` and `server.watchdog_mega_miss` will need to be updated.

Minor Behavior Changes
----------------------
*Changes that may cause incompatibilities for some users, but should not for most*

* adaptive concurrency: added a response body / grpc-message header for rejected requests.
* async_client: minor change to handling header only responses more similar to header-with-empty-body responses.
* build: an :ref:`Ubuntu based debug image <install_binaries>` is built and published in DockerHub.
* build: the debug information will be generated separately to reduce target size and reduce compilation time when build in compilation mode `dbg` and `opt`. Users will need to build dwp file to debug with gdb.
* compressor: always insert `Vary` headers for compressible resources even if it's decided not to compress a response due to incompatible `Accept-Encoding` value. The `Vary` header needs to be inserted to let a caching proxy in front of Envoy know that the requested resource still can be served with compression applied.
* decompressor: headers-only requests were incorrectly not advertising accept-encoding when configured to do so. This is now fixed.
* ext_authz filter: request timeout will now count from the time the check request is created, instead of when it becomes active. This makes sure that the timeout is enforced even if the ext_authz cluster's circuit breaker is engaged.
  This behavior can be reverted by setting runtime feature `envoy.reloadable_features.ext_authz_measure_timeout_on_check_created` to false. When enabled, a new `ext_authz.timeout` stat is counted when timeout occurs. See :ref:`stats <config_http_filters_ext_authz_stats>`.
* grpc reverse bridge: upstream headers will no longer be propagated when the response is missing or contains an unexpected content-type.
* http: added :ref:`contains <envoy_api_msg_type.matcher.StringMatcher>`, a new string matcher type which matches if the value of the string has the substring mentioned in contains matcher.
* http: added :ref:`contains <envoy_api_msg_route.HeaderMatcher>`, a new header matcher type which matches if the value of the header has the substring mentioned in contains matcher.
* http: added :ref:`headers_to_add <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.ResponseMapper.headers_to_add>` to :ref:`local reply mapper <config_http_conn_man_local_reply>` to allow its users to add/append/override response HTTP headers to local replies.
* http: added HCM level configuration of :ref:`error handling on invalid messaging <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.stream_error_on_invalid_http_message>` which substantially changes Envoy's behavior when encountering invalid HTTP/1.1 defaulting to closing the connection instead of allowing reuse. This can temporarily be reverted by setting `envoy.reloadable_features.hcm_stream_error_on_invalid_message` to false, or permanently reverted by setting the HTTP/1 configuration :ref:`override_stream_error_on_invalid_http_message <envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.Http1ProtocolOptions.override_stream_error_on_invalid_http_message>` to true to restore prior HTTP/1.1 behavior (i.e. connection isn't terminated) and to retain prior HTTP/2 behavior (i.e. connection is terminated).
* http: added HCM level configuration of :ref:`error handling on invalid messaging <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.stream_error_on_invalid_http_message>` which substantially changes Envoy's behavior when encountering invalid HTTP/1.1 defaulting to closing the connection instead of allowing reuse. This can temporarily be reverted by setting `envoy.reloadable_features.hcm_stream_error_on_invalid_message` to false, or permanently reverted by setting the :ref:`HCM option <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.stream_error_on_invalid_http_message>` to true to restore prior HTTP/1.1 beavior and setting the *new* HTTP/2 configuration :ref:`override_stream_error_on_invalid_http_message <envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.Http2ProtocolOptions.override_stream_error_on_invalid_http_message>` to false to retain prior HTTP/2 behavior.
* http: applying route level header modifications to local replies sent on that route. This behavior may be temporarily reverted by setting `envoy.reloadable_features.always_apply_route_header_rules` to false.
* http: changed Envoy to send GOAWAY to HTTP2 downstreams when the :ref:`disable_keepalive <config_overload_manager_overload_actions>` overload action is active. This behavior may be temporarily reverted by setting `envoy.reloadable_features.overload_manager_disable_keepalive_drain_http2` to false.
* http: changed Envoy to send error headers and body when possible. This behavior may be temporarily reverted by setting `envoy.reloadable_features.allow_response_for_timeout` to false.
* http: changed empty trailers encoding behavior by sending empty data with ``end_stream`` true (instead of sending empty trailers) for HTTP/2. This behavior can be reverted temporarily by setting runtime feature `envoy.reloadable_features.http2_skip_encoding_empty_trailers` to false.
* http: changed how local replies are processed for requests which transform from grpc to not-grpc, or not-grpc to grpc. Previously the initial generated reply depended on which filter sent the reply, but now the reply is consistently generated the way the downstream expects. This behavior can be temporarily reverted by setting `envoy.reloadable_features.unify_grpc_handling` to false.
* http: clarified and enforced 1xx handling. Multiple 100-continue headers are coalesced when proxying. 1xx headers other than {100, 101} are dropped.
* http: fixed a bug in access logs where early stream termination could be incorrectly tagged as a downstream disconnect, and disconnects after partial response were not flagged.
* http: fixed the 100-continue response path to properly handle upstream failure by sending 5xx responses. This behavior can be temporarily reverted by setting `envoy.reloadable_features.allow_500_after_100` to false.
* http: the per-stream FilterState maintained by the HTTP connection manager will now provide read/write access to the downstream connection FilterState. As such, code that relies on interacting with this might
  see a change in behavior.
* logging: added fine-grain logging for file level log control with logger management at administration interface. It can be enabled by option :option:`--enable-fine-grain-logging`.
* logging: changed default log format to `"[%Y-%m-%d %T.%e][%t][%l][%n] [%g:%#] %v"` and default value of :option:`--log-format-prefix-with-location` to `0`.
* logging: nghttp2 log messages no longer appear at trace level unless `ENVOY_NGHTTP2_TRACE` is set
  in the environment.
* lua: changed the response body returned by `httpCall()` API to raw data. Previously, the returned data was string.
* memory: switched to the `new tcmalloc <https://github.com/google/tcmalloc>`_ for linux_x86_64 builds. The `old tcmalloc <https://github.com/gperftools/gperftools>`_ can still be enabled with the `--define tcmalloc=gperftools` option.
* postgres: changed log format to tokenize fields of Postgres messages.
* router: added transport failure reason to response body when upstream reset happens. After this change, the response body will be of the form `upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers. reset reason:{}, transport failure reason:{}`.This behavior may be reverted by setting runtime feature `envoy.reloadable_features.http_transport_failure_reason_in_body` to false.
* router: now consumes all retry related headers to prevent them from being propagated to the upstream. This behavior may be reverted by setting runtime feature `envoy.reloadable_features.consume_all_retry_headers` to false.
* stats: the fake symbol table implemention has been removed from the binary, and the option `--use-fake-symbol-table` is now a no-op with a warning.
* thrift_proxy: special characters {'\0', '\r', '\n'} will be stripped from thrift headers.
* watchdog: replaced single watchdog with separate watchdog configuration for worker threads and for the main thread configured via :ref:`Watchdogs<envoy_v3_api_field_config.bootstrap.v3.Bootstrap.watchdogs>`. It works with :ref:`watchdog<envoy_v3_api_field_config.bootstrap.v3.Bootstrap.watchdog>` by having the worker thread and main thread watchdogs have same config.

Bug Fixes
---------
*Changes expected to improve the state of the world and are unlikely to have negative effects*

* csrf: fixed issues with regards to origin and host header parsing.
* dynamic_forward_proxy: only perform DNS lookups for routes to Dynamic Forward Proxy clusters since other cluster types handle DNS lookup themselves.
* fault: fixed an issue with `active_faults` gauge not being decremented for when abort faults were injected.
* fault: made the HeaderNameValues::prefix() method const.
* grpc-web: fixed an issue with failing HTTP/2 requests on some browsers. Notably, WebKit-based browsers (https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=210108), Internet Explorer 11, and Edge (pre-Chromium).
* http: fixed CVE-2020-25018 by rolling back the ``GURL`` dependency to previous state (reverted: ``2d69e30``, ``d828958``, and ``c9c4709`` commits) due to potential of crashing when Unicode URIs are present in requests.
* http: fixed bugs in datadog and squash filter's handling of responses with no bodies.
* http: made the HeaderValues::prefix() method const.
* jwt_authn: supports jwt payload without "iss" field.
* listener: fixed crash at listener inplace update when connection load balancer is set.
* rocketmq_proxy: fixed an issue involving incorrect header lengths. In debug mode it causes crash and in release mode it causes underflow.
* thrift_proxy: fixed crashing bug on request overflow.
* udp_proxy: fixed a crash due to UDP packets being processed after listener removal.

Removed Config or Runtime
-------------------------
*Normally occurs at the end of the* :ref:`deprecation period <deprecated>`

* http: removed legacy header sanitization and the runtime guard `envoy.reloadable_features.strict_header_validation`.
* http: removed legacy transfer-encoding enforcement and runtime guard `envoy.reloadable_features.reject_unsupported_transfer_encodings`.
* http: removed configurable strict host validation and runtime guard `envoy.reloadable_features.strict_authority_validation`.
* http: removed the connection header sanitization runtime guard `envoy.reloadable_features.connection_header_sanitization`.

New Features
------------
* access log: added a :ref:`dynamic metadata filter<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.accesslog.v3.MetadataFilter>` for access logs, which filters whether to log based on matching dynamic metadata.
* access log: added support for :ref:`%DOWNSTREAM_PEER_FINGERPRINT_1% <config_access_log_format_response_flags>` as a response flag.
* access log: added support for :ref:`%CONNECTION_TERMINATION_DETAILS% <config_access_log_format_connection_termination_details>` as a log command operator about why the connection is terminated by Envoy.
* access log: added support for nested objects in :ref:`JSON logging mode <config_access_log_format_dictionaries>`.
* access log: added :ref:`omit_empty_values<envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.SubstitutionFormatString.omit_empty_values>` option to omit unset value from formatted log.
* access log: added support for :ref:`%CONNECTION_ID% <config_access_log_format_connection_id>` for the downstream connection identifier.
* admin: added :ref:`circuit breakers settings <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.cluster.v3.CircuitBreakers>` information to GET /clusters?format=json :ref:`cluster status <envoy_v3_api_msg_admin.v3.ClusterStatus>`.
* admin: added :ref:`node <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.core.v3.Node>` information to GET /server_info :ref:`response object <envoy_v3_api_msg_admin.v3.ServerInfo>`.
* admin: added the ability to dump init manager unready targets information :ref:`/init_dump <operations_admin_interface_init_dump>` and :ref:`/init_dump?mask={} <operations_admin_interface_init_dump_by_mask>`.
* admission control: added the :ref:`admission control <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.admission_control.v3alpha.AdmissionControl>` filter for client-side request throttling.
* build: enable building envoy :ref:`arm64 images <install_binaries>` by buildx tool in x86 CI platform.
* cluster: added new :ref:`connection_pool_per_downstream_connection <envoy_v3_api_field_config.cluster.v3.Cluster.connection_pool_per_downstream_connection>` flag, which enable creation of a new connection pool for each downstream connection.
* decompressor filter: reports compressed and uncompressed bytes in trailers.
* dns: added support for doing DNS resolution using Apple's DnsService APIs in Apple platforms (macOS, iOS). This feature is ON by default, and is only configurable via the `envoy.restart_features.use_apple_api_for_dns_lookups` runtime key. Note that this value is latched during server startup and changing the runtime key is a no-op during the lifetime of the process.
* dns_filter: added support for answering :ref:`service record<envoy_v3_api_msg_data.dns.v3.DnsTable.DnsService>` queries.
* dynamic_forward_proxy: added :ref:`use_tcp_for_dns_lookups<envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.common.dynamic_forward_proxy.v3.DnsCacheConfig.use_tcp_for_dns_lookups>` option to use TCP for DNS lookups in order to match the DNS options for :ref:`Clusters<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.cluster.v3.Cluster>`.
* ext_authz filter: added support for emitting dynamic metadata for both :ref:`HTTP <config_http_filters_ext_authz_dynamic_metadata>` and :ref:`network <config_network_filters_ext_authz_dynamic_metadata>` filters.
  The emitted dynamic metadata is set by :ref:`dynamic metadata <envoy_v3_api_field_service.auth.v3.CheckResponse.dynamic_metadata>` field in a returned :ref:`CheckResponse <envoy_v3_api_msg_service.auth.v3.CheckResponse>`.
* ext_authz filter: added :ref:`stat_prefix <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.ext_authz.v3.ExtAuthz.stat_prefix>` as an optional additional prefix for the statistics emitted from `ext_authz` HTTP filter.
* ext_authz filter: added support for enabling the filter based on :ref:`dynamic metadata <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.ext_authz.v3.ExtAuthz.filter_enabled_metadata>`.
* ext_authz filter: added support for letting the authorization server instruct Envoy to remove headers from the original request by setting the new field :ref:`headers_to_remove <envoy_v3_api_field_service.auth.v3.OkHttpResponse.headers_to_remove>` before forwarding it to the upstream.
* ext_authz filter: added support for sending :ref:`raw bytes as request body <envoy_v3_api_field_service.auth.v3.AttributeContext.HttpRequest.raw_body>` of a gRPC check request by setting :ref:`pack_as_bytes <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.ext_authz.v3.BufferSettings.pack_as_bytes>` to true.
* ext_authz_filter: added :ref:`disable_request_body_buffering <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.ext_authz.v3.CheckSettings.disable_request_body_buffering>` to disable request data buffering per-route.
* grpc-json: support specifying `response_body` field in for `google.api.HttpBody` message.
* hds: added :ref:`cluster_endpoints_health <envoy_v3_api_field_service.health.v3.EndpointHealthResponse.cluster_endpoints_health>` to HDS responses, keeping endpoints in the same groupings as they were configured in the HDS specifier by cluster and locality instead of as a flat list.
* hds: added :ref:`transport_socket_matches <envoy_v3_api_field_service.health.v3.ClusterHealthCheck.transport_socket_matches>` to HDS cluster health check specifier, so the existing match filter :ref:`transport_socket_match_criteria <envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.HealthCheck.transport_socket_match_criteria>` in the repeated field :ref:`health_checks <envoy_v3_api_field_service.health.v3.ClusterHealthCheck.health_checks>` has context to match against. This unblocks support for health checks over HTTPS and HTTP/2.
* hot restart: added :option:`--socket-path` and :option:`--socket-mode` to configure UDS path in the filesystem and set permission to it.
* http: added HTTP/2 support for :ref:`connection keepalive <envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.Http2ProtocolOptions.connection_keepalive>` via PING.
* http: added support for :ref:`%DOWNSTREAM_PEER_FINGERPRINT_1% <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>` as custom header.
* http: added :ref:`allow_chunked_length <envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.Http1ProtocolOptions.allow_chunked_length>` configuration option for HTTP/1 codec to allow processing requests/responses with both Content-Length and Transfer-Encoding: chunked headers. If such message is served and option is enabled - per RFC Content-Length is ignored and removed.
* http: added :ref:`CDN Loop filter <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.cdn_loop.v3alpha.CdnLoopConfig>` and :ref:`documentation <config_http_filters_cdn_loop>`.
* http: added :ref:`MaxStreamDuration proto <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.route.v3.RouteAction.MaxStreamDuration>` for configuring per-route downstream duration timeouts.
* http: introduced new HTTP/1 and HTTP/2 codec implementations that will remove the use of exceptions for control flow due to high risk factors and instead use error statuses. The old behavior is used by default for HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 server connections. The new codecs can be enabled for testing by setting the runtime feature `envoy.reloadable_features.new_codec_behavior` to true. The new codecs will be in development for one month, and then enabled by default while the old codecs are deprecated.
* http: modified the HTTP header-map data-structure to use an underlying dictionary and a list (no change to the header-map API). To conform with previous versions, the use of a dictionary is currently disabled. It can be enabled by setting the `envoy.http.headermap.lazy_map_min_size` runtime feature to a non-negative number which defines the minimal number of headers in a request/response/trailers required for using a dictionary in addition to the list. Our current benchmarks suggest that the value 3 is a good threshold for most workloads.
* load balancer: added :ref:`RingHashLbConfig<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.cluster.v3.Cluster.MaglevLbConfig>` to configure the table size of Maglev consistent hash.
* load balancer: added a :ref:`configuration<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.cluster.v3.Cluster.LeastRequestLbConfig>` option to specify the active request bias used by the least request load balancer.
* load balancer: added an :ref:`option <envoy_v3_api_field_config.cluster.v3.Cluster.LbSubsetConfig.LbSubsetSelector.single_host_per_subset>` to optimize subset load balancing when there is only one host per subset.
* load balancer: added support for bounded load per host for consistent hash load balancers via :ref:`hash_balance_factor <envoy_api_field_Cluster.CommonLbConfig.consistent_hashing_lb_config>`.
* local_reply config: added :ref:`content_type<envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.SubstitutionFormatString.content_type>` field to set content-type.
* lua: added Lua APIs to access :ref:`SSL connection info <config_http_filters_lua_ssl_socket_info>` object.
* lua: added Lua API for :ref:`base64 escaping a string <config_http_filters_lua_stream_handle_api_base64_escape>`.
* lua: added Lua API for :ref:`setting the current buffer content <config_http_filters_lua_buffer_wrapper_api_set_bytes>`.
* lua: added new :ref:`source_code <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.lua.v3.LuaPerRoute.source_code>` field to support the dispatching of inline Lua code in per route configuration of Lua filter.
* overload management: add :ref:`scaling <envoy_v3_api_field_config.overload.v3.Trigger.scaled>` trigger for OverloadManager actions.
* postgres network filter: :ref:`metadata <config_network_filters_postgres_proxy_dynamic_metadata>` is produced based on SQL query.
* proxy protocol: added support for generating the header upstream using :ref:`Proxy Protocol Transport Socket <extension_envoy.transport_sockets.upstream_proxy_protocol>`.
* ratelimit: added :ref:`enable_x_ratelimit_headers <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.ratelimit.v3.RateLimit>` option to enable `X-RateLimit-*` headers as defined in `draft RFC <https://tools.ietf.org/id/draft-polli-ratelimit-headers-03.html>`_.
* ratelimit: added :ref:`per route config <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.ratelimit.v3.RateLimitPerRoute>` for rate limit filter.
* ratelimit: added support for optional :ref:`descriptor_key <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RateLimit.Action.generic_key>` to Generic Key action.
* rbac filter: added the name of the matched policy to the response code detail when a request is rejected by the RBAC filter.
* rbac filter: added a log action to the :ref:`RBAC filter <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.rbac.v3.RBAC>` which sets dynamic metadata to inform access loggers whether to log.
* redis: added fault injection support :ref:`fault injection for redis proxy <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.redis_proxy.v3.RedisProxy.faults>`, described further in :ref:`configuration documentation <config_network_filters_redis_proxy>`.
* router: added a new :ref:`rate limited retry back off <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.route.v3.RetryPolicy.RateLimitedRetryBackOff>` strategy that uses headers like `Retry-After` or `X-RateLimit-Reset` to decide the back off interval.
* router: added new
  :ref:`envoy-ratelimited<config_http_filters_router_retry_policy-envoy-ratelimited>`
  retry policy, which allows retrying envoy's own rate limited responses.
* router: added new :ref:`host_rewrite_path_regex <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.host_rewrite_path_regex>`
  option, which allows rewriting Host header based on path.
* router: added support for DYNAMIC_METADATA :ref:`header formatter <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`.
* router_check_tool: added support for `request_header_matches`, `response_header_matches` to :ref:`router check tool <config_tools_router_check_tool>`.
* signal: added support for calling fatal error handlers without envoy's signal handler, via FatalErrorHandler::callFatalErrorHandlers().
* stats: added optional histograms to :ref:`cluster stats <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats_request_response_sizes>`
  that track headers and body sizes of requests and responses.
* stats: allow configuring histogram buckets for stats sinks and admin endpoints that support it.
* tap: added :ref:`generic body matcher<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.tap.v3.HttpGenericBodyMatch>` to scan http requests and responses for text or hex patterns.
* tcp_proxy: added :ref:`max_downstream_connection_duration<envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.tcp_proxy.v3.TcpProxy.max_downstream_connection_duration>` for downstream connection. When max duration is reached the connection will be closed.
* tcp_proxy: allow earlier network filters to set metadataMatchCriteria on the connection StreamInfo to influence load balancing.
* tls: added OCSP stapling support through the :ref:`ocsp_staple <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.transport_sockets.tls.v3.TlsCertificate>` and :ref:`ocsp_staple_policy <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.transport_sockets.tls.v3.DownstreamTlsContext>` configuration options. See :ref:`OCSP Stapling <arch_overview_ssl_ocsp_stapling>` for usage and runtime flags.
* tls: introduce new :ref:`extension point<envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.transport_sockets.tls.v3.CommonTlsContext.custom_handshaker>` for overriding :ref:`TLS handshaker <arch_overview_ssl>` behavior.
* tls: switched from using socket BIOs to using custom BIOs that know how to interact with IoHandles. The feature can be disabled by setting runtime feature `envoy.reloadable_features.tls_use_io_handle_bio` to false.
* tracing: added ability to set some :ref:`optional segment fields<envoy_v3_api_field_config.trace.v3.XRayConfig.segment_fields>` in the AWS  X-Ray tracer.
* udp_proxy: added :ref:`hash_policies <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.udp.udp_proxy.v3.UdpProxyConfig>` to support hash based routing.
* udp_proxy: added :ref:`use_original_src_ip <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.udp.udp_proxy.v3.UdpProxyConfig>` option to replicate the downstream remote address of the packets on the upstream side of Envoy. It is similar to :ref:`original source filter <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.listener.original_src.v3.OriginalSrc>`.
* watchdog: support randomizing the watchdog's kill timeout to prevent synchronized kills via a maximium jitter parameter :ref:`max_kill_timeout_jitter<envoy_v3_api_field_config.bootstrap.v3.Watchdog.max_kill_timeout_jitter>`.
* watchdog: supports an extension point where actions can be registered to fire on watchdog events such as miss, megamiss, kill and multikill. See :ref:`watchdog actions<envoy_v3_api_field_config.bootstrap.v3.Watchdog.actions>`.
* watchdog: watchdog action extension that does cpu profiling. See :ref:`Profile Action <envoy_v3_api_file_envoy/extensions/watchdog/profile_action/v3alpha/profile_action.proto>`.
* watchdog: watchdog action extension that sends SIGABRT to the stuck thread to terminate the process. See :ref:`Abort Action <envoy_v3_api_msg_watchdog.v3alpha.AbortActionConfig>`.
* xds: added :ref:`extension config discovery<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.core.v3.ExtensionConfigSource>` support for HTTP filters.
* xds: added support for mixed v2/v3 discovery response, which enable type url downgrade and upgrade. This feature is disabled by default and is controlled by runtime guard `envoy.reloadable_features.enable_type_url_downgrade_and_upgrade`.
* zlib: added option to use `zlib-ng <https://github.com/zlib-ng/zlib-ng>`_ as zlib library.

Deprecated
----------

* build: alpine based debug image is deprecated in favor of :ref:`Ubuntu based debug image <install_binaries>`.
* cluster: the :ref:`track_timeout_budgets <envoy_v3_api_field_config.cluster.v3.Cluster.track_timeout_budgets>`
  field has been deprecated in favor of `timeout_budgets` part of an :ref:`Optional Configuration <envoy_v3_api_field_config.cluster.v3.Cluster.track_cluster_stats>`.
* ext_authz: the :ref:`dynamic metadata <envoy_v3_api_field_service.auth.v3.OkHttpResponse.dynamic_metadata>` field in :ref:`OkHttpResponse <envoy_v3_api_msg_service.auth.v3.OkHttpResponse>` has been deprecated in favor of :ref:`dynamic metadata <envoy_v3_api_field_service.auth.v3.CheckResponse.dynamic_metadata>` field in :ref:`CheckResponse <envoy_v3_api_msg_service.auth.v3.CheckResponse>`.
* hds: the :ref:`endpoints_health <envoy_v3_api_field_service.health.v3.EndpointHealthResponse.endpoints_health>`
  field has been deprecated in favor of :ref:`cluster_endpoints_health <envoy_v3_api_field_service.health.v3.EndpointHealthResponse.cluster_endpoints_health>` to maintain
  grouping by cluster and locality.
* router: the :ref:`include_vh_rate_limits <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.include_vh_rate_limits>` field has been deprecated in favor of :ref:`vh_rate_limits <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.ratelimit.v3.RateLimitPerRoute.vh_rate_limits>`.
* router: the :ref:`max_grpc_timeout <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.max_grpc_timeout>` field has been deprecated in favor of :ref:`grpc_timeout_header_max <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.MaxStreamDuration.grpc_timeout_header_max>`.
* router: the :ref:`grpc_timeout_offset <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.grpc_timeout_offset>` field has been deprecated in favor of :ref:`grpc_timeout_header_offset <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.MaxStreamDuration.grpc_timeout_header_offset>`.
* tap: the :ref:`match_config <envoy_v3_api_field_config.tap.v3.TapConfig.match_config>` field has been deprecated in favor of
  :ref:`match <envoy_v3_api_field_config.tap.v3.TapConfig.match>` field.
* router_check_tool: `request_header_fields`, `response_header_fields` config deprecated in favor of `request_header_matches`, `response_header_matches`.
* watchdog: :ref:`watchdog <envoy_v3_api_field_config.bootstrap.v3.Bootstrap.watchdog>` deprecated in favor of :ref:`watchdogs <envoy_v3_api_field_config.bootstrap.v3.Bootstrap.watchdogs>`.
