1.18.3 (May 11, 2021)
=====================

Incompatible Behavior Changes
-----------------------------
*Changes that are expected to cause an incompatibility if applicable; deployment changes are likely required*

Minor Behavior Changes
----------------------
*Changes that may cause incompatibilities for some users, but should not for most*

Bug Fixes
---------
*Changes expected to improve the state of the world and are unlikely to have negative effects*

* zipkin: fix timestamp serializaiton in annotations. A prior bug fix exposed an issue with timestamps being serialized as strings.

Removed Config or Runtime
-------------------------
*Normally occurs at the end of the* :ref:`deprecation period <v1.18:deprecated>`

* tls: removed `envoy.reloadable_features.tls_use_io_handle_bio` runtime guard and legacy code path.

New Features
------------

* http: added the ability to :ref:`unescape slash sequences <v1.18:envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.path_with_escaped_slashes_action>` in the path. Requests with unescaped slashes can be proxied, rejected or redirected to the new unescaped path. By default this feature is disabled. The default behavior can be overridden through :ref:`http_connection_manager.path_with_escaped_slashes_action <v1.18:config_http_conn_man_runtime_path_with_escaped_slashes_action>` runtime variable. This action can be selectively enabled for a portion of requests by setting the :ref:`http_connection_manager.path_with_escaped_slashes_action_sampling <v1.18:config_http_conn_man_runtime_path_with_escaped_slashes_action_enabled>` runtime variable.

Deprecated
----------
