1.10.0 (Apr 5, 2019)
====================

Changes
-------

* access log: added a new flag for upstream retry count exceeded.
* access log: added a :ref:`gRPC filter <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.accesslog.v2.GrpcStatusFilter>` to allow filtering on gRPC status.
* access log: added a new flag for stream idle timeout.
* access log: added a new field for upstream transport failure reason in :ref:`file access logger<config_access_log_format_upstream_transport_failure_reason>` and
  :ref:`gRPC access logger<envoy_api_field_data.accesslog.v2.AccessLogCommon.upstream_transport_failure_reason>` for HTTP access logs.
* access log: added new fields for downstream x509 information (URI sans and subject) to file and gRPC access logger.
* admin: the admin server can now be accessed via HTTP/2 (prior knowledge).
* admin: changed HTTP response status code from 400 to 405 when attempting to GET a POST-only route (such as /quitquitquit).
* buffer: fix vulnerabilities when allocation fails.
* build: releases are built with GCC-7 and linked with LLD.
* build: dev docker images :ref:`have been split <install_binaries>` from tagged images for easier
  discoverability in Docker Hub. Additionally, we now build images for point releases.
* config: added support of using google.protobuf.Any in opaque configs for extensions.
* config: logging warnings when deprecated fields are in use.
* config: removed deprecated --v2-config-only from command line config.
* config: removed deprecated_v1 sds_config from :ref:`Bootstrap config <config_overview_bootstrap>`.
* config: removed the deprecated_v1 config option from :ref:`ring hash <envoy_api_msg_Cluster.RingHashLbConfig>`.
* config: removed REST_LEGACY as a valid :ref:`ApiType <envoy_api_field_core.ApiConfigSource.api_type>`.
* config: finish cluster warming only when a named response i.e. ClusterLoadAssignment associated to the cluster being warmed comes in the EDS response. This is a behavioural change from the current implementation where warming of cluster completes on missing load assignments also.
* config: use Envoy cpuset size to set the default number or worker threads if :option:`--cpuset-threads` is enabled.
* config: added support for :ref:`initial_fetch_timeout <envoy_api_field_core.ConfigSource.initial_fetch_timeout>`. The timeout is disabled by default.
* cors: added :ref:`filter_enabled & shadow_enabled RuntimeFractionalPercent flags <cors-runtime>` to filter.
* csrf: added :ref:`CSRF filter <config_http_filters_csrf>`.
* ext_authz: added support for buffering request body.
* ext_authz: migrated from v2alpha to v2 and improved docs.
* ext_authz: added a configurable option to make the gRPC service cross-compatible with V2Alpha. Note that this feature is already deprecated. It should be used for a short time, and only when transitioning from alpha to V2 release version.
* ext_authz: migrated from v2alpha to v2 and improved the documentation.
* ext_authz: authorization request and response configuration has been separated into two distinct objects: :ref:`authorization request
  <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.HttpService.authorization_request>` and :ref:`authorization response
  <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.HttpService.authorization_response>`. In addition, :ref:`client headers
  <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.AuthorizationResponse.allowed_client_headers>` and :ref:`upstream headers
  <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.AuthorizationResponse.allowed_upstream_headers>` replaces the previous *allowed_authorization_headers* object.
  All the control header lists now support :ref:`string matcher <envoy_api_msg_type.matcher.StringMatcher>` instead of standard string.
* fault: added the :ref:`max_active_faults
  <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.fault.v2.HTTPFault.max_active_faults>` setting, as well as
  :ref:`statistics <config_http_filters_fault_injection_stats>` for the number of active faults
  and the number of faults the overflowed.
* fault: added :ref:`response rate limit
  <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.fault.v2.HTTPFault.response_rate_limit>` fault injection.
* fault: added :ref:`HTTP header fault configuration
  <config_http_filters_fault_injection_http_header>` to the HTTP fault filter.
* governance: extending Envoy deprecation policy from 1 release (0-3 months) to 2 releases (3-6 months).
* health check: expected response codes in http health checks are now :ref:`configurable <envoy_api_msg_core.HealthCheck.HttpHealthCheck>`.
* http: added new grpc_http1_reverse_bridge filter for converting gRPC requests into HTTP/1.1 requests.
* http: fixed a bug where Content-Length:0 was added to HTTP/1 204 responses.
* http: added :ref:`max request headers size <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.max_request_headers_kb>`. The default behaviour is unchanged.
* http: added modifyDecodingBuffer/modifyEncodingBuffer to allow modifying the buffered request/response data.
* http: added encodeComplete/decodeComplete. These are invoked at the end of the stream, after all data has been encoded/decoded respectively. Default implementation is a no-op.
* outlier_detection: added support for :ref:`outlier detection event protobuf-based logging <arch_overview_outlier_detection_logging>`.
* mysql: added a MySQL proxy filter that is capable of parsing SQL queries over MySQL wire protocol. Refer to :ref:`MySQL proxy<config_network_filters_mysql_proxy>` for more details.
* performance: new buffer implementation (disabled by default; to test it, add "--use-libevent-buffers 0" to the command-line arguments when starting Envoy).
* jwt_authn: added :ref:`filter_state_rules <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.jwt_authn.v2alpha.JwtAuthentication.filter_state_rules>` to allow specifying requirements from filterState by other filters.
* ratelimit: removed deprecated rate limit configuration from bootstrap.
* redis: added :ref:`hashtagging <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.ConnPoolSettings.enable_hashtagging>` to guarantee a given key's upstream.
* redis: added :ref:`latency stats <config_network_filters_redis_proxy_per_command_stats>` for commands.
* redis: added :ref:`success and error stats <config_network_filters_redis_proxy_per_command_stats>` for commands.
* redis: migrate hash function for host selection to `MurmurHash2 <https://sites.google.com/site/murmurhash>`_ from std::hash. MurmurHash2 is compatible with std::hash in GNU libstdc++ 3.4.20 or above. This is typically the case when compiled on Linux and not macOS.
* redis: added :ref:`latency_in_micros <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.latency_in_micros>` to specify the redis commands stats time unit in microseconds.
* router: added ability to configure a :ref:`retry policy <envoy_api_msg_route.RetryPolicy>` at the
  virtual host level.
* router: added reset reason to response body when upstream reset happens. After this change, the response body will be of the form `upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers. reset reason:`
* router: added :ref:`rq_reset_after_downstream_response_started <config_http_filters_router_stats>` counter stat to router stats.
* router: added per-route configuration of :ref:`internal redirects <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.internal_redirect_action>`.
* router: removed deprecated route-action level headers_to_add/remove.
* router: made :ref:`max retries header <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-max-retries>` take precedence over the number of retries in route and virtual host retry policies.
* router: added support for prefix wildcards in :ref:`virtual host domains<envoy_api_field_route.VirtualHost.domains>`
* stats: added support for histograms in prometheus
* stats: added usedonly flag to prometheus stats to only output metrics which have been
  updated at least once.
* stats: added gauges tracking remaining resources before circuit breakers open.
* tap: added new alpha :ref:`HTTP tap filter <config_http_filters_tap>`.
* tls: enabled TLS 1.3 on the server-side (non-FIPS builds).
* upstream: add hash_function to specify the hash function for :ref:`ring hash<envoy_api_msg_Cluster.RingHashLbConfig>` as either xxHash or `murmurHash2 <https://sites.google.com/site/murmurhash>`_. MurmurHash2 is compatible with std::hash in GNU libstdc++ 3.4.20 or above. This is typically the case when compiled on Linux and not macOS.
* upstream: added :ref:`degraded health value<arch_overview_load_balancing_degraded>` which allows
  routing to certain hosts only when there are insufficient healthy hosts available.
* upstream: add cluster factory to allow creating and registering :ref:`custom cluster type<arch_overview_service_discovery_types_custom>`.
* upstream: added a :ref:`circuit breaker <arch_overview_circuit_break_cluster_maximum_connection_pools>` to limit the number of concurrent connection pools in use.
* tracing: added :ref:`verbose <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.tracing>` to support logging annotations on spans.
* upstream: added support for host weighting and :ref:`locality weighting <arch_overview_load_balancing_locality_weighted_lb>` in the :ref:`ring hash load balancer <arch_overview_load_balancing_types_ring_hash>`, and added a :ref:`maximum_ring_size<envoy_api_field_Cluster.RingHashLbConfig.maximum_ring_size>` config parameter to strictly bound the ring size.
* zookeeper: added a ZooKeeper proxy filter that parses ZooKeeper messages (requests/responses/events).
  Refer to :ref:`ZooKeeper proxy<config_network_filters_zookeeper_proxy>` for more details.
* upstream: added configuration option to select any host when the fallback policy fails.
* upstream: stopped incrementing upstream_rq_total for HTTP/1 conn pool when request is circuit broken.

Deprecated
----------

* Use of `use_alpha` in :ref:`Ext-Authz Authorization Service <envoy_api_file_envoy/service/auth/v2/external_auth.proto>` is deprecated. It should be used for a short time, and only when transitioning from alpha to V2 release version.
* Use of `enabled` in `CorsPolicy`, found in
  :ref:`route.proto <envoy_api_file_envoy/api/v2/route/route.proto>`.
  Set the `filter_enabled` field instead.
* Use of the `type` field in the `FaultDelay` message (found in
  :ref:`fault.proto <envoy_api_file_envoy/config/filter/fault/v2/fault.proto>`)
  has been deprecated. It was never used and setting it has no effect. It will be removed in the
  following release.
