1.2.0 (March 7, 2017)
=====================

Changes
-------

* :ref:`Cluster discovery service (CDS) API <v1.5:config_cluster_manager_cds>`.
* :ref:`Outlier detection <v1.5:arch_overview_outlier_detection>` (passive health checking).
* Envoy configuration is now checked against a JSON schema.
* :ref:`Ring hash <v1.5:arch_overview_load_balancing_types>` consistent load balancer, as well as HTTP
  consistent hash routing based on a policy.
* Vastly :ref:`enhanced global rate limit configuration <v1.5:arch_overview_rate_limit>` via the HTTP
  rate limiting filter.
* HTTP routing to a cluster retrieved from a header.
* Weighted cluster HTTP routing.
* Auto host rewrite during HTTP routing.
* Regex header matching during HTTP routing.
* HTTP access log runtime filter.
* LightStep tracer :ref:`parent/child span association <v1.5:arch_overview_tracing>`.
* :ref:`Route discovery service (RDS) API <v1.5:config_http_conn_man_rds>`.
* HTTP router :ref:`x-envoy-upstream-rq-timeout-alt-response header
  <v1.5:config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-upstream-rq-timeout-alt-response>` support.
* *use_original_dst* and *bind_to_port* :ref:`listener options <v1.5:config_listeners>` (useful for
  iptables based transparent proxy support).
* TCP proxy filter :ref:`route table support <v1.5:config_network_filters_tcp_proxy>`.
* Configurable stats flush interval.
* Various :ref:`third party library upgrades <v1.5:install_requirements>`, including using BoringSSL as
  the default SSL provider.
* No longer maintain closed HTTP/2 streams for priority calculations. Leads to substantial memory
  savings for large meshes.
* Numerous small changes and fixes not listed here.
