1.3.0 (May 17, 2017)
====================

Changes
-------

* As of this release, we now have an official :repo:`breaking change policy
  </CONTRIBUTING.md#breaking-change-policy>`. Note that there are numerous breaking configuration
  changes in this release. They are not listed here. Future releases will adhere to the policy and
  have clear documentation on deprecations and changes.
* Bazel is now the canonical build system (replacing CMake). There have been a huge number of
  changes to the development/build/test flow. See :repo:`/bazel/README.md` and
  :repo:`/ci/README.md` for more information.
* :ref:`Outlier detection <arch_overview_outlier_detection>` has been expanded to include success
  rate variance, and all parameters are now configurable in both runtime and in the JSON
  configuration.
* TCP level listener and cluster connections now have configurable receive buffer
  limits at which point connection level back pressure is applied.
  Full end to end flow control will be available in a future release.
* :ref:`Redis health checking <config_cluster_manager_cluster_hc>` has been added as an active
  health check type. Full Redis support will be documented/supported in 1.4.0.
* :ref:`TCP health checking <config_cluster_manager_cluster_hc_tcp_health_checking>` now supports a
  "connect only" mode that only checks if the remote server can be connected to without
  writing/reading any data.
* `BoringSSL <https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl>`_ is now the only supported TLS provider.
  The default cipher suites and ECDH curves have been updated with more modern defaults for both
  listener and cluster connections.
* The `header value match` rate limit action has been expanded to include an `expect
  match` parameter.
* Route level HTTP rate limit configurations now do not inherit the virtual host level
  configurations by default. Use `include_vh_rate_limits` to inherit the virtual host
  level options if desired.
* HTTP routes can now add request headers on a per route and per virtual host basis via the
  :ref:`request_headers_to_add <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>` option.
* The :ref:`example configurations <intro_deployment_types>` have been refreshed to demonstrate the
  latest features.
* `per_try_timeout_ms` can now be configured in
  a route's retry policy in addition to via the :ref:`x-envoy-upstream-rq-per-try-timeout-ms
  <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-upstream-rq-per-try-timeout-ms>` HTTP header.
* HTTP virtual host matching now includes support for prefix wildcard domains (e.g., `*.lyft.com`).
* The default for tracing random sampling has been changed to 100% and is still configurable in
  :ref:`runtime <config_http_conn_man_runtime>`.
* HTTP tracing configuration has been extended to allow tags
  to be populated from arbitrary HTTP headers.
* The :ref:`HTTP rate limit filter <config_http_filters_rate_limit>` can now be applied to internal,
  external, or all requests via the `request_type` option.
* :ref:`Listener binding <config_listeners>` now requires specifying an `address` field. This can be
  used to bind a listener to both a specific address as well as a port.
* The :ref:`MongoDB filter <config_network_filters_mongo_proxy>` now emits a stat for queries that
  do not have `$maxTimeMS` set.
* The :ref:`MongoDB filter <config_network_filters_mongo_proxy>` now emits logs that are fully valid
  JSON.
* The CPU profiler output path is now configurable.
* A watchdog system has been added that can kill the server if a deadlock is detected.
* A :ref:`route table checking tool <install_tools_route_table_check_tool>` has been added that can
  be used to test route tables before use.
* We have added an :ref:`example repo <extending>` that shows how to compile/link a custom filter.
* Added additional cluster wide information related to outlier detection to the :ref:`/clusters
  admin endpoint <operations_admin_interface>`.
* Multiple SANs can now be verified via the `verify_subject_alt_name` setting.
  Additionally, URI type SANs can be verified.
* HTTP filters can now be passed opaque configuration specified on a per route basis.
* By default Envoy now has a built in crash handler that will print a back trace. This behavior can
  be disabled if desired via the ``--define=signal_trace=disabled`` Bazel option.
* Zipkin has been added as a supported :ref:`tracing provider <arch_overview_tracing>`.
* Numerous small changes and fixes not listed here.
