1.5.0 (December 4, 2017)
========================

Changes
-------

* access log: added fields for :ref:`UPSTREAM_LOCAL_ADDRESS and DOWNSTREAM_ADDRESS
  <v1.5:config_access_log_format>`.
* admin: added :ref:`JSON output <v1.5:operations_admin_interface_stats>` for stats admin endpoint.
* admin: added basic :ref:`Prometheus output <v1.5:operations_admin_interface_stats>` for stats admin
  endpoint. Histograms are not currently output.
* admin: added ``version_info`` to the :ref:`/clusters admin endpoint <v1.5:operations_admin_interface_clusters>`.
* config: the :ref:`v2 API <v1.5:config_overview_v2>` is now considered production ready.
* config: added --v2-config-only CLI flag.
* cors: added :ref:`CORS filter <v1.5:config_http_filters_cors>`.
* health check: added :ref:`x-envoy-immediate-health-check-fail
  <v1.5:config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-immediate-health-check-fail>` header support.
* health check: added :ref:`reuse_connection <v1.5:envoy_api_field_HealthCheck.reuse_connection>` option.
* http: added :ref:`per-listener stats <v1.5:config_http_conn_man_stats_per_listener>`.
* http: end-to-end HTTP flow control is now complete across both connections, streams, and filters.
* load balancer: added :ref:`subset load balancer <v1.5:arch_overview_load_balancer_subsets>`.
* load balancer: added ring size and hash :ref:`configuration options
  <v1.5:envoy_api_msg_Cluster.RingHashLbConfig>`. This used to be configurable via runtime. The runtime
  configuration was deleted without deprecation as we are fairly certain no one is using it.
* log: added the ability to optionally log to a file instead of stderr via the
  :option:`--log-path` option.
* listeners: added :ref:`drain_type <v1.5:envoy_api_field_Listener.drain_type>` option.
* lua: added experimental :ref:`Lua filter <v1.5:config_http_filters_lua>`.
* mongo filter: added :ref:`fault injection <v1.5:config_network_filters_mongo_proxy_fault_injection>`.
* mongo filter: added :ref:`"drain close" <v1.5:arch_overview_draining>` support.
* outlier detection: added :ref:`HTTP gateway failure type <v1.5:arch_overview_outlier_detection>`.
  See `deprecated log <https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/v1.5.0/DEPRECATED.md>`_
  for outlier detection stats deprecations in this release.
* redis: the :ref:`redis proxy filter <v1.5:config_network_filters_redis_proxy>` is now considered
  production ready.
* redis: added :ref:`"drain close" <v1.5:arch_overview_draining>` functionality.
* router: added :ref:`x-envoy-overloaded <v1.5:config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-overloaded>` support.
* router: added :ref:`regex <v1.5:envoy_api_field_RouteMatch.regex>` route matching.
* router: added :ref:`custom request headers <v1.5:config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`
  for upstream requests.
* router: added :ref:`downstream IP hashing
  <v1.5:envoy_api_field_RouteAction.HashPolicy.connection_properties>` for HTTP ketama routing.
* router: added :ref:`cookie hashing <v1.5:envoy_api_msg_RouteAction.HashPolicy.Cookie>`.
* router: added :ref:`start_child_span <v1.5:envoy_api_field_filter.http.Router.start_child_span>` option
  to create child span for egress calls.
* router: added optional :ref:`upstream logs <v1.5:envoy_api_field_filter.http.Router.upstream_log>`.
* router: added complete :ref:`custom append/override/remove support
  <v1.5:config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>` of request/response headers.
* router: added support to :ref:`specify response code during redirect
  <v1.5:envoy_api_field_RedirectAction.response_code>`.
* router: added :ref:`configuration <v1.5:envoy_api_field_RouteAction.cluster_not_found_response_code>`
  to return either a 404 or 503 if the upstream cluster does not exist.
* runtime: added :ref:`comment capability <v1.5:config_runtime_comments>`.
* server: change default log level (:option:`-l`) to ``info``.
* stats: maximum stat/name sizes and maximum number of stats are now variable via the
  ``--max-obj-name-len`` and ``--max-stats`` options.
* tcp proxy: added :ref:`access logging <v1.5:envoy_api_field_filter.network.TcpProxy.access_log>`.
* tcp proxy: added :ref:`configurable connect retries
  <v1.5:envoy_api_field_filter.network.TcpProxy.max_connect_attempts>`.
* tcp proxy: enable use of :ref:`outlier detector <v1.5:arch_overview_outlier_detection>`.
* tls: added :ref:`SNI support <v1.5:faq_how_to_setup_sni>`.
* tls: added support for specifying :ref:`TLS session ticket keys
  <v1.5:envoy_api_field_DownstreamTlsContext.session_ticket_keys>`.
* tls: allow configuration of the :ref:`min
  <v1.5:envoy_api_field_TlsParameters.tls_minimum_protocol_version>` and :ref:`max
  <v1.5:envoy_api_field_TlsParameters.tls_minimum_protocol_version>` TLS protocol versions.
* tracing: added :ref:`custom trace span decorators <v1.5:envoy_api_field_Route.decorator>`.
* Many small bug fixes and performance improvements not listed.

Deprecated
----------

* The outlier detection ``ejections_total`` stats counter has been deprecated and not replaced. Monitor
  the individual ``ejections_detected_*`` counters for the detectors of interest, or
  ``ejections_enforced_total`` for the total number of ejections that actually occurred.
* The outlier detection ``ejections_consecutive_5xx`` stats counter has been deprecated in favour of
  ``ejections_detected_consecutive_5xx`` and ``ejections_enforced_consecutive_5xx``.
* The outlier detection ``ejections_success_rate`` stats counter has been deprecated in favour of
  ``ejections_detected_success_rate`` and ``ejections_enforced_success_rate``.
